Some background infoRoam is a note-taking tool for the "networked brain." What does that mean?It emulates how your brain works, which is in a mashed web of interconnected thoughts rather than a linear and folder structure. How did it come to be?Before founding Roam, Conor founded two prior businesses and also worked at HuffPost as a Co-Founder of HuffPost Labs, where he reported directly to Arianna Huffington and HuffPost CTO.Ok, let's dive into the first 1000The Tesla Go to market strategy 🚙Tesla's started with the sports car, the high-end complex cumbersome version of what they were trying to do. They went after the people who loved cars and would appreciate the subtle and nuanced improvements they can bring to the industry, even if, at first, they came at the cost of complexity, price, and other variables. These were the loudest and most cynical people to please, but at the same time the most advocate and passionate users of cars in general.The Roam Adoption of Tesla Go to Market 🚙 Similarly, when Roam Research started, their quest was to find those same kinds of users. Users with a problem that is so complex that they were willing to learn and adopt new tools and workflows.These were not your "CEOs" or "Twitter influencers." These were..AI safety communityPeople thinking about AI risk, who had to do a lot of research, understand and dissect a complicated topic.Rationalist Bay Area thinkersPeople who think about thinking. They were working on understanding how to process emotions and deal with thinking biases.In fact, despite being a "hyped" consumer product, their first 1000 or so users came exclusively from enterprise license deals with a handful of these organizations. As long as they kept building features, those researchers and philosophers would continue using the product and Roam were able to charge and renew their enterprise license deals.The misconception of "waiting lists."A few years of developing the "sports car" features of Roam -in congestion with working very closely with power users to find product-market fit- came the "request access" feature that many wrongly attribute as the key driver to their “popularity.”Nevertheless it is still an important aspect on how to scale demand once you MOVE BEYOND YOUR FIRST 1000 users. Let’s dive a bit into the phenomena of #RoamCult which is their current growth catalyst.🧟‍♂️#RoamCult...the product side From a product perspective, Conor describes his Roam as a "Low Floor High Ceiling" product. Which means they created a product with a very low entry point and a very steep learning curve. The learning curve is a crucial component behind much of the momentum of the product. Roam is very easy to get started and very powerful if you learn it(..similar to how excel) is, and the steep learning curve is good! Even though it is a lot of effort, that means users can learn it quickly and become that much more powerful and unlock the "superpowers" of your product. That is a primary ingredient of making people vocal about your product.🧟‍♂️#RoamCult..the Twitter sideConor used twitter like he did roam, creating threads and threads of threads of the philosophy behind the product. Roam and other popular products with cult following had in common a strong belief about how things "ought to be" rather than how they are. And this is how Conor leveraged twitter to create a strong following behind Roam. It has seldom been the case that a founder uses his "social capital" to build hype behind a product but instead using his "product" to build hype around himself and consequently, his product. Here are a few actionable examples on how he did thatTweeting abt why Evernote is a terrible second brain Tweeting about the frustration of using tools that force people to think in a "linear model."Getting into fights with people who like Evernote and explain why they are fundamentally wrong.Explaining the science, math, and psychology about how a human brain works.It doesn't hurt be loud and opinionated abt what your beliefs. It will resonate with some, frustrate others, but that is the case with any fundamentally different product.. it challenges the current mode of thinking.🧟‍♂️#RoamCult..the mission sideA cult has a shared belief and mission that resonates very strongly with a concentrated group of people. For Roam, that mission was and still is "building a second brain." Building on from thereWhat we see now from the rising popularity of Roam Research is the result of building a product with the most cynical power users for a couple of years and having a crystal clear view on how note-taking ought to be and being loud about it. But more specifically, here is how they got from enterprise deals to the hottest consumer product in 2020.Going after people who are willing to learn how to use power tools. Instead of the lowest common denominator. People who may individually exhibit the same characteristics as researches. Those are your "intellectual athletes." Intellectual athletes are your writers, researchers, and people who "hacked" twitter as a medium to express their thoughts and views of different topics and beliefs. Intellectual athletes often have a following of people that aspire to think and act like them. They are the so called “thought leaders”Intellectual athletes are prone to being power users, and Roam's efficacy in the connecting different thoughts  makes them likely to personally drive next-wave customers.In essence, instead of appealing to the public or the "most influential," Roam went after the people "most likely to be a power user." and those people did all the heavy lifting.

SubscribeA Little bit about the companySlice was started by Ilir Sela, a self-proclaimed "third-generation pizza." in 2010 and was initially named Mypizza, in tribute to the first pizzeria that Illia owned and managed. Unlike Doordash, Postmates, and other food aggregators, Slice takes a vertically integrated approach to delivery, which they dubbed as a "reverse franchise" model.What is a reverse franchise model exactly?Think of it as bringing the same kind of value to local pizzerias as Domino's delivers to their franchisees.Aggregating buying power for SMBs for things like Pizza boxes decreasing costs by as much as 80%Being the "back-office" for local pizzerias eliminating the need for hiring part-time workers for managing orders, answering calls..etcIncrease basket-size and order frequency for local pizzerias by a marketplace digital offering minus all crazy fees aggregators charge.Negotiating and offering 3rd party services(such as delivery) at competitive prices due to the aggregated buying power.Time for the good stuff...How did they get their first 1000 customers?Loyalty first, discovery second.To get started and even to this day, Ilir focused his sales pitch on getting more orders from YOUR CUSTOMERS rather than onboarding new clients as the other food aggregators preach. Ilir explains that if you've been living in a neighborhood for enough time, you likely already know what your favorite pizza spot is. The issue then becomes one of delivery as opposed to restaurant selection. That made it more compelling to onboard new clients and leap-frog the chicken and egg marketplace—liquidity problem.Okay... but still, how did he get pizzerias on board?He picked up the phone and started calling in local pizzerias and insisted on showing up personally at the store.  That humanized the company and allowed him to develop some rapport with small business owners. To lend himself more credibility heLeased a small car and wrapped it with the brandParked it in front of the small restaurant to make sure they see itWeirdly, that small gesture gave him even more credibility and made it seem that they had scale when they didn't.Was that it?Not quite it. When meeting with owners of these shops about his "digital" solution, it felt like a massive change to the business operations and made a lot of small shop owners reluctant to get on board.At the same time, he noticed that all these menus still had fax numbers that were used by companies nearby to order in lunch for their employees. So instead of trying to sell his solution, he decided to sell his value proposition which is MORE ORDERS FROM YOUR CUSTOMER and so heChanged pitch to "Do you want more fax orders" rather than do you want to join our platform. Easy, simple way to demonstrate value.Figured out how to turn online orders into faxes and offered almost no downside for people joiningAfter onboarding new "fax clients" and demonstrating value, he would then go on to onboard them onto the Slice platform, which offered even more value and increased efficiency to the owners.His parting words of advice"Fit yourself within the existing workflow to show value and then change them for the better. "That is it for today, See you on Sunday 😉

SubscribeLet's start from the beginning. Founder Katrina Lake started Stitch Fix in 2010 during her second year MBA at Harvard Business School. Unlike other founder stories we hear, she doesn't claim that she was "born to be an entrepreneur." Going to business school was her way of de-risking the process and gave her two study years to explore building a company. Her goals before graduation were to  Test different "Hypothesis." Start a companyRaise money and be able to afford to pay back her loansAnd sure enough just two months shy of graduating, she had raised her Seed round from Baseline Ventures to what was then named Rack Habit.You don't need an MVP to get started.After dabbling around with a few hypotheses- one of which was exploring the Fishing and Hunting industry- she landed on apparel shopping. Her thesis at the time was that as the death spiral for retailors has started, and more of the retail shopping experience has shifted online, the nuanced and emotional aspect of apparel shopping has been stripped away. Then it became a matter of how she can deliver an online personal shopping experience in apparel.Because Katrina took a very scientific approach to company building, experimenting with and validating different hypotheses, she didn't even create a landing page for her new idea. All she needed was a google form.Validating the ideaAs a young student living and studying in Boston, with few friends living in the area, she was continually meeting strangers and friends of friends to build up her social circle. So she leaned into that as well when trying to build her "company" and would send out surveys to friends of friends asking them about their shopping habits and telling them about Stitch Fix.But how did she buy the clothes, packaging and other stuff she needed?She used her credit card, which had a limit of $6,000.She was able to source and procure clothes from boutique stores with a 14-30 day return window. Whatever didn't sell, she would then return it for a refund. While she did not make any money from validating the idea, she has also managed to do so without spending or losing any money.After running this test with around 20 friends of friends, she was able to validate that:A survey was etiquette enough to be able to style a stranger. There was no need to be physically around them, as has been the case with personal stylists.People were open to and found value in purchasing from new brands they had not heard of before100+ Orders in, still no websiteAfter validating the concept in February 2010 in Boston while still a student at HBS, Katrina managed to raise a $500k Seed Round two months later from Baseline Ventures. Between creating "fixes" and shipping them, closing the round, and graduating school, Katrina found no need to build a website just yet. If you wanted a Fix, you had to email her and fill out the survey she sent.The first couple of months after raising money go like this:-April: Raises Seed and ships 29 orders -May: Graduates HBS and ships 35-June: Hires an intern, relocates to San Francisco, launches a blog, and ships 110 orders.-July: Ships 235 ordersFinally a landing pageSeven months into the company and after hitting a few thousand orders, Katrina finally launched a landing page in November 2011. A landing page where you can fill out the survey and join the waitlist until Stitch Fix was ready to serve you. Sometimes it took two weeks, and other times, it took three months to get your first Fix.The company relied religiously on two aspects to get their first few hundred thousand orders.They were mobilizing 50k-100k following Instagrammers who loved the product and encouraged them to post about their Stitch Fix experience.Word of mouth from customers through Instagram and Pinterest postsSixteen months after starting the company, Stitch Fix hit 100,000 orders. They leaned onto those two organic acquisition channels and kept deferring their marketing budget from one year to the next as they could not keep up with the demand for a few more years.That's it for today. See you on Thursday. 😉Subscribe

🔎A little bit about CarswitchCarSwitch is out to fix a fundamentally opaque and broken >$20B space, the Middle-Eastern regional used car market, by driving it into the 21st century. Used car sales is an incredibly painful process, for sellers it’s endless phone calls and low ball offers while for buyers its sketchy conversations and hidden damages!CarSwitch takes the entire process off the seller & buyer hands employing a fleet of certified specialists and cutting edge technology to inspect, certify, and warranty every car, vet serious buyers, match them with trusted sellers and guide the two through the full transaction✈️Taking offFrom concept to launch in 60 days- the founder of CarSwitch explains how they did itThe startup scene is bubbling in the MENA Region, and Dubai specifically, with several ventures announcing fundraising from global players in recent months, with this enviable list of enterprises it makes sense to take a closer look into the key ingredients that led these startups to success- how do these cash strapped ventures manage to survive and flourish? And, perhaps most importantly, where does one start! As the founder of CarSwitch, a UAE-based used-car market place that managed to raise almost US$10 million to date, we wanted to share a few of the fundamentals (proposition, timing, and relevance) that helped them get to where they are today. Rewinding to the beginning, in a hyper competitive space (and with limited capital), they managed to launch CarSwitch from concept to launch in 60 days- here are the five pillars that we used to build their enterprise:👨‍👩‍👦People, people, people- with little cash, what else do you have?Committed, driven, and well-placed co-founders are the starting point. It’s quite difficult to afford, or find, the right people for every task, and so you need to tag team the venture with co-founders that are willing to roll-up their sleeves and do whatever it takes to get it done. In our case, as co-founders, the two of us did everything from being actors in CarSwitch’s homepage video, we handheld the first 40 cars on the site from inspection through to RTA transfer, and we even played call center roles in the wee hours of the night when capacity was short!🚀Launch and iterate. It’s crucial to have an end-state vision in mind that delivers the dream proposition, but unless you’re Apple, you have to break it down and launch what you can as quickly as you can or risk running out of money. At CarSwitch, our vision is to give buyers enough transparency and trust to buy a car online sight unseen: an e-commerce experience that ties in online features and price comparisons, total cost of ownership lens from financing to insurance, and much, much more. It would probably take a year or two to build that kind of platform, and so we broke it down to, say, let’s start with telling you everything about the specifics of the car you’re looking at, from its condition, to pictures of every scratch, and take it from there.🔙Work backwards, and set firm deadlines. When the vision of CarSwitch was being drawn on a whiteboard in Jan, there was a moment where we took a step back and declared (to ourselves) that the website must go live in March. The company didn’t exist yet, there were no customers to sell cars to, no mechanics to inspect, no website to host, heck, the company name wasn’t even clear yet! But while the date was arbitrary, it did put a stick in the ground for our business- a non-negotiable deadline that must be met. The work that followed pivoted around the date: we stripped down our aspirations, and looked at what was the absolute minimum required to take off- and the rest can follow. This provided the framework for a MVP (minimum viable product), and enabled us to bring something to market in less than 60 days.🧟‍♂️Don’t be afraid to change- listen to your customers, and adapt. Launching quickly gives opportunity to hear customer feedback early, you may need to devise beta groups to manage disappointing early visitors. But remember: real feedback trumps conceptual research any day. CarSwitch, for instance, is running at least five different experiments at any given time- they are controlled, closely monitored, and rapidly integrated. We develop new features and services, their pricing, and how to deliver through real-time learning. It is naturally risky to operate this way at scale, but controlling delivery to accepting smaller groups of customers can be incredibly powerful.👨‍🎨Keep the end-state aspiration always in mind. With many moving pieces, small teams, and incredible pressure to deliver, it can be straining to remain steady in one direction. Given this scenario, the importance of having an end-state aspiration in mind cannot be understated. Yes, you have financial obligations to meet, but ultimately your customers determine your success, and unless you have unwavering determination to deliver a proposition that surpasses their expectations and needs, the sustainability of your venture is questionable.👨🏾‍💻And most importantly hack it, till you make it! Throughout a startup journey, opportunities come to mind that are seemingly magical. Pulling them off though often requires weeks, if not months, of research, development work and execution and ultimately may not end up being magical at all. So the muscle we’ve trained is how to devise the quickest / dirtiest pilot that can quickly tell us if an opportunity is really worth it. How can we test an opportunity with a tenth of the tech? What holes can ops fill in? How can we quickly find test subjects (aka customers)? Hacks are everywhere if you hunt for them, and the first customers we onboarded were readily available on substitute platforms, social platforms, people networks, and so on. Launching an SMS or outbound call campaign doesn’t take much time at all and can quickly give you an answer if its worth pursuing

SubscribeSo Postmates was acquired by Uber for $2.65b last week... it seemed timely to write an issue on them. But before we get started, I just wanted to apologize for the delay in sending this week's newsletter. The internet lords (ISP) have decided throughout the past five days that I am not worthy of Wifi @ home. I just got back online, and boiiiiii does it feel good.👵Let's rewind the clock when Postmates wasn't really Postmates.When Postmates launched its Beta back in September 2011, they were a little bit different. Their offering was an on-demand delivery service connecting couriers and bike messengers within a city to anyone who needs to ship anything, from a birthday card to a refrigerator. They were the "Uber of things." In the old Postmates era (Sept 2011-April 2012), Bastian, Founder & CEO, was focused on onboarding retailers ( as furniture stores) that don't necessarily have a full-time fleet but would need to do deliveries regularly. They could tap into the Postmates network, and place a delivery order as easy as ordering an Uber. "Whenever we showed that solution to merchants, they got excited, said they would use it 1000 times a day, and we got 1 or 2 orders from them at the end."📝Users spoke, Bastian ignored.In the pre-WeCanBuyYouAnything era, Postmates did have, theoretically, all the components they need to create a billion-dollar 🦄.$12B Market Size  ✅Fragmented, outdated and Opaque industry✅Distribution ✅ Merchant partners (i.e stores) recommending solution to customers Network Effects . ✅User recommended By Merchant->Download App>Discover new merchants>Merchants get more customers>So they recommend more usersPress coverage ✅ Techcrunch, Time Magazine, Pando (RIP)...etcBeing a young startup, it’s easy to get trapped in the "if we only do X we will break out" mentality, especially if you are going after a big, outdated market with a sleek, tech solution. VCs love that 🥇. This is why it took Bastian 7 months to look into the "Can I use Postmates to purchase X?" inquiries, which started almost immediately when the app first launched. At first, he was adamant that users don't "get it," but as time proves, again and again, the customer is always right. LISTEN TO THEM!🥵Burnt by the merchantsWhen Bastian finally caved and decided to test this proposition, he had to go back to square 0 and rethink where to deploy his energy in a three-sided marketplaces. Before, he focused on onboarding the supply side (merchants) and couriers. He relied on merchants for demand/distribution. For the GetItNow App, he decided to shift gears and focus on generating consumer demand and onboarding couriers while completely "hacking" supply. He decided no more partnership! They will list every possible business in SF that they could get their hands on through databases as YellowPages, Yelp, and Scrapping Google Maps Businesses. They Focused their energy on generating demand and acquiring customers. He would later partner with Merchants 3 years after the launch of the then-named GetItNow app.🚀Okai now let’s talk about how he got dem early customers.Because Bastian wanted to test this new value proposition quickly, he didn't spend as much time as he did on the old courier Postamtes developing all the infrastructure needed. So he "hacked" a few things:Payments: He bought 20 Visa Gift Cards and gave them to his couriersPartnerships: He scrapped business info online and add it to his apps, also the couriers where disguised "as customers" not to raise any red flags early onAnd then, GetItNow was released in the wild. This was rather different than when he launched the B2B Courier Service 7 months back. Bastian was a lot more methodical in tracking Quality vs. Quantity. Being told before that "his solution is amazing, and they really need it," and those same people rarely using it made him a lot more cautious this time around. He launched GetItNow in 3 phases: Pre-Beta: Trial with existing customers that submitted that request for Postmates to purchase something for them. They got their first 300 customers and $5,000 of GMVInvite-Only Beta: This is where they exceeded their #First1000 orders. Besides "hacking supply," Postmates implemented these three techniques to generate demand very early in their Beta.2.1 Weekend Experiment: They sent out a newsletter with a limited two-day offer named "GetItNow." Only for the weekend would Postmates go out and purchase anything the user wanted. If users wanted to be a part of this promotion they had to tweet out the hashtag #GetItNow on Twitter2.2 Limited invites for beta users. Every new user got the ability to invite only five new people. Making invites for the service a desired commodity for SF darlings.2.3 Incentivised user feedback: Bastian would offer in a blog post a free delivery for every piece of feedback emailed to him. This unremitting focus on user feedback very early helped direct the team to the most fundamental features to built before an actual launch 27 days later.Launch: Bastian had his way with the Media, he launched Postmates back when they were only doing delivery on TechCrunch Disrupt and has since had numerous pieces published on his startup. He utilized that relationship and somehow convinced publications to plug in a promo code in the Press Release announcing the launch of the GetItNow app, which we now know as Postmates.Again Bastian was focused on how much users spend/month on the app instead of how many users he had. He wanted to track the “quality” of his service. He cared about was how much value he was creating for each customer. He wanted to nail the proposition first before going "all out." Given what we know today, I am sure he did the right thing!🙋🏻‍♂️Before you go...here is a little thing for you So this week we have two invites to Atom Finance "The Bloomberg for Robinhood traders" to giveaway to our top referees. Reply to this issue or DM me on twitter with the emails of people you referred us to, and we'll send you a code if you are in the top 2. 😉Hope you haven't given up on wearing a mask 😷,Ali AbouelattaSee you next Saturday 😉Subscribe

Subscribe💻Linear To be honest, They described it best"Frustrated with building and managing software projects in high-growth companies ourselves, we founded a company to build something better."Managing software projects is one of the first SaaS software products to exist. In the past ten years, we saw more innovation than the 40 years before that. In 10 years, the growth in the tech sector was Linear (pun intended), but where is the innovation in Issue Tracking Software?🤨If it works, why change it?Every software company uses tools to help them manage their development pipeline, and things were working out just fine, but fine wasn't good enough anymore. While everything from tracking, software development practices, technologies evolved. Issue Tracking software didn't grow. Linear was born.🦸🏾‍♂️Superhuman of XCool, now they have to take on some old-time players in the industry. Their roots are in almost every software company. What did they have to do to get their first 1000 users? The answer is to build a great product and make it so enjoyable that it gets people EXCITED.Great UI/UXIf you have ever used a Jira or a similar product, you know the experience is mediocre, it's not attractive, it lags, and you get lost in the U.I. Linear came in with an intuitive UI/UX. We are supposed to be using these tools multiple times a day; you have to enjoy using them!Speed is everythingIt feels like everything was built with speed in mind, searching, navigating, keyboard shortcuts, etc. Everything is instantaneous.Shortcuts? They have them all.The whole experience is accessible by Shortcuts, not even all of them. 👇😏The distribution LuxuryFor Sequoia to lead your Seed Round, your founding team must be extraordinary and unique was Linear's founding team. While many first-time founders have had to "hack" their way into getting their first 1000 customers, the Linear team had the network and credibility not to have to. On top of that, they layered in a community aspect to the product to propel their adoption and growth right out of the gate. Their road to land their first 1000 customers can be divided into these two distinct categories:Network Network Network:  Airbnb, Coinbase, Uber Alum Networks: Founders of Linear come from some of the shiniest startups in the ecosystem. Not only that, but they also held prominent positions in these startups. Karri Saarinen, Co-founder, and CEO, for instance, was the Head of Design at Coinbase before joining Airbnb as a Principle Designer. Toumas Artman and Jori Lallo, the other cofounders, have been at Uber & Coinbase, respectively, before starting Linear working on important engineering projects. Medium: For years before starting Linear, Karri has blogged semi-regularly on Medium. Taking aspiring and junior designers behind the scenes on how they think about design and make decisions at Airbnb. This has netted him a few thousand followers on Medium that would seed Linear's launch announcement. Twitter: Between the three of them, they had an audience of almost 25k followers. Good enough to generate the first couple of hundred invites into the system. YC: Last but not least, Linear's founding team is Y.C. alum, which is an unprecedented network of founders to get started when you are building SaaS software. Even though they did not go through Y.C. again with Linear, they were not shy to mention "Y.C. Alums" in their P.R. releases & Press Coverage. This was another major unlock for the team to onboard customers early on and get credibility needed when you are competing with an 800-pound gorilla like Atlassian.The power of building those networks over the past 5-6 years gave the team an advantage of having their initial base of customers, trusting, and willing to try the product. All they had to do is build a kickass Issue Tracking Software. We tried it....and they delivered beyond our expectations!CommunityWhen you have the network for early distribution, the next step is to scale it and what better way than having an evangelist community. It costs 0$, generates a lot of Fomo, which leads to more press coverage, leading to more customers who become evangelists, and the loop continues. Despite being just over a year old, Linear has already laid out the foundation of building a strong community behind its product. Weekly Product Updates: Linear publishes a weekly log of new features and how the product is evolving. They do very publicly in the product, on Twitter, and through marketing emails. And they move fast! This strategy has been working very well for them to garner enthusiasm from their users and generate engagement as well as feedback from their early adopters. This tight feedback loop has made early adopters feel that they have a much closer relationship with Linear and can influence the product's roadmap, something that is just unfathomable with any other large management software. Non-incentivized Referrals: Early adopters have a unique power to allow anyone to skip the waiting the line to try the product if they refer them. This approach's beauty is that they don't have to incentivize these referrals, unlike Uber, Airbnb, or any other tech company. Just having the privilege to allow users to skip the waiting line is enough of an incentive for early adopters to spread the world! Building on an initial strong network with a vocal community of early adopters is how Linear generates their growth, and it all starts with a product-lead company. Product is the core of everything they do, and you can see from using the product how every small detail is intentionally crafted to generate user delight. They didn't start with an MVP; they started with a fucking awesome product right out the gate. I am not sure how many founders can say that.That’s it for today 😉 , See you next Saturday👋Subscribe

SubscribeYou don't need to be an expert.Before Etsy came IOspace. IOspace was a software development house that "can make things out of HTML, CSS, PHP, MySQL, PostgreSQL, wood and acrylic. Most everything we do is computer-based, including our work in wood and acrylic." A software house that sometimes does computer wood and acrylic design 🤔... impressive.One of the projects they undertook at IOspace was a redesign of getcrafty.com. Getcrafty, at the time(2004), had over 10,000 members. It was an online forum for artisans. As the IOspace founders emerged themselves in the Getcrafty community to try to understand how best to redesign the website, they discovered that the overwhelming discussion was around something like, "I wish there were a place where I could sell my crafts! eBay sucks - it's hard to use, doesn't care about us, and charges high fees."They found an opportunity, and they acted on it! Everyone(hmm VCs) says to build a product for yourself, Kudos to you if you do, but Etsy proves that doesn't always have to be the case.Two months is a long timeThe next step was to build an MVP, and after two months of development, they had everything set but a payment system. So what did they do? They launched and made Etsy free for both sellers and buyers until they could bake payments into the product. This also helped them play to their biggest competitor weakness; the number one complaint artisans selling on eBay had was the exorbitant commissions. They knew that because of their work on craftsman.com.Two birds one stone.Leveraging existing platformsThis is often the trickiest part. Now that they had a problem worth solving and an MVP, how did they get buyers and sellers on board? I mean, the whole point of this newsletter is to figure out how do you get your first 1000 customers (and sellers if you are a marketplace)? For Etsy to generate demand (and supply as well), they relied on the existing online forums but not in the way that you would expect. They didn't go around spamming every post/website out there discussing selling vintage/craftwork online. Instead, they focused on two leading forum websites and established working partnerships with them. This works because they partnered with people downstream to their business, so Etsy is a value-add to an online forum (you can do more than discover), and the incentives are aligned. The two main forums they worked closely with wereGetcrafty.com: This is the online forum that had 10k members who inspired the team to build Etsy. Because they were still also working on that as a freelance project, they had access to the community, the data, and a strong relationship with the founders that they leveraged to seed the demand on Etsy.Craftster.org: Craftster was X10 bigger than getcrafty (over 100k members), and their members echoed the same problems(they can't find a seller-friendly place on the internet to sell their stuff). They were often buried in the eBay results pages because of the "deal-hunter" nature of the website, and they didn't find the eBay commission fee structure fair to them. So the Etsy team reached out to the Craftster founder and worked out a deal (though the exact terms are unknown till today) to help Craftster users discover Etsy upon their launch.These two partnerships were enough to have "thousands of sellers excited to register and try it [Etsy] out by launch time." In their words their Go To Market Strategy was Extend(ing) an accommodating bridge to a preexisting online community, and people jumped aboard happily.Wine & DineFor the supply side, Etsy did not try to poach sellers from eBay, as Airbnb did with Craiglist. Their supply strategy was to get the best creators onboard while hoping the sellers' audiences would follow. The store set up on Etsy, and it's focusing on people lets sellers shop more of their personality and brand and build relationships with buyers and other sellers. That is a stark difference from eBay, and one of the key selling points used to recruit sellers.Q: Where can you find the best sellers that have the highest quality products?A: TradeshowsEtsy decided to go all-in on these fairs across the United States, visiting one or two almost every weekend to recruit sellers. Once they got there, they did three things.🍷Wine & Dine: They would approach the most exciting sellers in the show and offer to buy them lunch.👨‍👩‍👦‍👦Show their Support: They would drop off 'craft show kits' to those sellers as small souvenirs. 👩🏾‍🎨Scream their brand: They would pass out brochures and promo codes for Etsy. However, all the leaflets were handmade and had a very "Etsy feel" to them.These were artists/crafters that were influential in the handmade world. They knew if they set up shop on Etsy, and were successful, others would follow. It's important to note that a lot of these sellers previously had no e-commerce presence, so for them to accept any online transactions at all, they had to send buyers to Etsy. A significant number of those sellers would vitalize the demand side (as they send their customers there) and build upon the early traction they got from online forums.Before you goIf you enjoyed the Etsy journey, then you will love what comes next:Top-of-the-funnel Growth Database: We have compiled a database of 49 Top-of The-Funnel experiments to A/B in your product. You can get it here.Newsletter Glue: If you are thinking about starting a newsletter to integrate with your WordPress site, then checkout Newsletter Glue. I played around with the demo this week, and ITS AWESOME. Must Read: Thoughts on career, optimization, and arrival. Starting something new is terrifying, and this article has helped me shed a lot of perspective on the journey.and of course big thanks Jenifer Eda Menezes. for the illustration😊That’s it for today, See you next Saturday 😉,Ali Abouelatta Subscribe

SubscribeHello, Welcome, Hola 👋👋👋If you are like me and trying to build side projects during quarantine, have a startup or just a curious mind. I stumbled upon startup resources last week and just want to give them a shoutout today just cuz its actually really really really really well curated.THIS IS AN AWESOME low effort way to discover cool tools and resources every week.Check em out actuallyOkai back to Doopoll &  who they are and what do they do? 📊Doopoll is a real-time survey tool that helps you gain insights from customers, employees, or live event attendees(although because of Coronavirus that last market has… not done well 😌). When we used to hold pitch events back in time when you can get hundreds of people in a room, we relied 100% on Doopoll. Because it was built for live polls and not surveys, we used to get a 60%+ response rate instead of 10-15% when we used SurveyMonkey. That's why I invited Marc Thomas, the CEO, to share the Doopoll story on First1000.Not enough people do this but please GO to your customers.🏎When the team had the idea, they built the MVP in just four days. Elemental is a very generous way to describe Doopoll V0. Once you logged in, you couldn't log out. They didn't even have time to test the core functionality of registering votes in one of the poll types. With a skeleton of an MVP ready, they went to a coworking space and invited anyone to join them in their lunch break in a conference room; they booked for their "launch" event. No Media, No PR...just a tens of potential users with Marc and the team sitting there observing social cues and trying to understand what resonated and what didn't from the entrepreneurs in the room.Enterprise is the way to go for their first 1000 customers…surprisingly 🤷‍♂️When Doopoll launched its Beta, they were serving two customersSME -> £40-£120 Enterprise -> £10KCounterintuitively, Marc discusses that before "nailing their value proposition," it was much easier to sell to Enterprise than it was to consumers or small businesses. Now that mark is shifting with the consumer business making up about 25% of the revenue and growing fast! Because the founders were experienced selling services before starting Doopoll, it was more natural for him to do the typical sales cycle.With going after big contracts, they managed to keep the company going while still trying to understand their place in the market. From the early days, they had a few problems.Did not understand their proposition -> they focused their marketing on "support for multiple languages" when people cared about having the "easiest survey tool to set up."Burned a lot of money trying to compete with SurveyMonkey on Paid AdsHad the wrong business model in place (Free Trial) vs. now they have a freemium model.For a lot of companies, those would have been detrimental to the business. But because Mark managed to secure 5k-10k enterprise contracts by cold emailing and getting meetings, he was able to grow Doopoll as they implemented a growth system and tackled each of these issues one after the other.It took them about a year to get their first 1000 customers; we can't wait to witness the 10,000 customer mark!What didn't work 🙈We usually focus on winning strategies. But it is also noticeable to point out all the things that people tried but didn't get them there. Here are a few of my favorites with Doopoll (that I wish they had worked 😭)Using personalized videos in cold outreach via Lemlist. While it is a useful tool for many people (and a bit corny), recruitment agencies (which were a subset of the target audience) didn't respond well.Being Funny: one variation of the campaigns they tried ended an email sequence with a last-ditch attempt where the subject line was: 'I want to work with you so bad I got a {firstName} tattoo on my arm.' Running Ads on an un-optimized funnelThe Awkward ending bitThat’s it for today, see you next week 😉,Ali AbouelattaOhh btw  I actually borrowed this last section title from one of my newly favorite newsletters Startup Resources. Subscribe

SubscribeSetting up the scene.Ryan Hoover, a single non-technical founder has built one of the landmarks of the startup world: Product Hunt. The idea was that there ought to be someplace where you can find all cool things tech. At the time, this information was scattered on Reddit, Quora Techcrunch...etc but Ryan has spent many years of his life blogging, building relationships, and creating projects like Startup Edition..all of that gave him an audience and network of supporters that would help kickstart his new idea.The first 170 usersTo test the idea from the get-go, especially as a non-technical founder, Ryan settled on a daily Email list and a Linkydink group. For those who haven't heard of Linkydink, it's a link-sharing tool created by Makeshift. You just create a group and invite people to share links with other contributors and subscribers. Each day, the collection of posts were sent to the subscribers to Product Hunt daily emails. The list started off with a couple of dozen influential people in the startup industry that Ryan personally knew. Seeding the email list with the right people, it soon grew to 170 subscribers and people started interacting with Ryan expressing how much they enjoyed the daily digests. Now it was time to actually build something.Here is what some few people had to sayAsh Bhoopathy, entrepreneur-in-action at Sequoia Capital.A fun experiment, I’ve been wondering why something like this hasn’t existed on a larger scale. It’s probably the PM/growth dude’s best replacement for ‘Dribbble’ for collecting inspiration.Andrew Weissman, Union Square Ventures:Love how you have all kinds of VCs subscribed! Build an angel list syndicate off this list and disrupt them (us) ;-).Talton Figgins, product support lead, Disqus:Wrote this idea off at first when I first read about it but after checking out some of the recommendations (Peak, Sqwiggle, Calm, and Cycloramic) I’m hooked. Can’t wait to check out more.Building off of that...to the 800 user mark.After having some validation, the next step in the journey was to grow that audience. Building a community is tough because you need to get people to engage and contribute, all without diluting the value of what you are offering. So to that extent, Ryan followed a slow-growth manual strategy that would take him to the 800 person mark.Building the product.That was the first thing to do after launching the email list. Teaming up with his friend Nathan they built the Product Hunt website on top of an open-source framework for a Reddit/HN like community and published the website in just 8 days.The insiders.After creating the website, Ryan invited around 100 early supporters to test the "real" MVP. Those people were hand-picked influential people in the tech community and were asked NOT TO SHARE PRODUCT HUNT PUBLICLY. The rationale behind this, as Ryan explains it, is that "initial users form the community’s culture and once established, it is very difficult to change."Public LaunchAfter getting Pando Daily to publish the first story about Product Hunt, Ryan again reached out to early contributors and asked them to share the story on their social media. He got to the first 400 users that wayThe next 400 users came from another PR move. This time with Fast Company where Ryan talked about "the 20 minute MVP". From 800 users to 2000 users in 20 days.For the next growth cycle, it was all about identifying influential people who signed up, giving them access to contribute, and asking them to refer other people to Product Hunt. It was a lot of manual emails, but it definitely paid off.Hundreds of emails later they got their first 2000 users, from there Product Hunt ended up going to YC S14 and two years later were acquired by Angellist for $20m.SubscribeThat is it for today, see you next week!Ali Abouelatta

This week we are going to be exploring a burgeoning mental wellness startup: Journify. With everything that is happening right now, it just seemed appropriate 😊. Let's jump right in.The first MVPWhen Journify launched its first MVP they had too many features, and like many other founders, they started trimming down based on what features users loved and, that was Audio Journaling. For Lamia, the founder and CEO of Journify her first 1000 customers strategy were 2 words: Content Marketing! A lot of people lose hope on content marketing because they don't get immediate feedback, but if you do it right you will get a fountain that won't run dry.5000 email subscribers, no product:Audio is hard to build, it takes a lot more time to release something to the public. What Lamia did was perhaps one of the most fascinating things I have seen. She took out some of core features of the app, put it on their website as an acquisition-product. This feature was called "Burn Out Test" and today still plays an important role in their acquisition strategy. Lamia focused all her content marketing around the Burn out Tests because it gave users a "low friction way" to explore the benefits of the product, tests also work well on social so that was another thing 😊. The takeaway here:Rethink how you can get give people value in the easiest possible way. Discovering your app, signing up and on-boarding is not the right answer.Okai content marketing...how to make it work?That was what I was also wondering, with longer feedback loop and more energy + time demand how can we know we are going to have positive ROI? Here is what Lamia did.Talk like a human. Talk like a human. Talk like a human. Having a brand accountWrite a lot! Lamia hired 14 content-marketing interns before even the company launched. She got over 400 application and that was because the brand had a unique voice.....which is 100% humanTurn research into digestable content. The most valuable content pieces for journify was when they took complex research about wellness and explained it to people in a way they understand. No one is usually very interested in you "general wisdom" save that for your school reunion!Life is more than Facebook and Instagram, Lamia produced content on spotify, youtube, elpha, girlboss and there is so much more. Indie hackers, Reddit, Pinterest, Product Hunt, Betalist, Slack communities, Startup School, Substack are just a few examples of more channels to test. I will leave you with quote that resonated with me when interviewing Lamia"People who look for a quick hack are never gonna get it"If you enjoyed reading this week’s issue you will love IndieLetters. IndieLetters is a bi-weekly briefing of marketing knowledge, tools & learning resources for solopreneurs, and makers. Always stay on top of practical marketing knowledge.That’s it for today 😉, See you next weekAli Abouelatta

SubscribeThis week’s issue needs no introduction. Our case study is about Tinder, yet another startup that started in the dorm rooms! What you may not know is that if it wasn’t for Apple’s strict app store guidelines, Tinder would have never happened. You see, the founding team at Tinder ( I won’t go into naming names as there has been a lot of dispute about who is a founder and who is not..among other things), students at USC at the time were working full time in an incubator/venture studio on a credit card loyalty app called Cardify. Cardify’s release has been delayed by App Store’s approval process so the team spent sometime flushing out a hackathon concept a bit further:Matchbox…which we now know as Tinder. Tinder hit 15k users within a week from launching! Let’s jump right into how they got those first 15k users.😴 The boring Stuff:It sounds trivial now, but back in 2012 having FB as your only sign up option was one the main reasons for Tinder’s steadfast growth trajectory. Most dating apps would require users to fill in long questionnaires about themselves and their habits, losing customers before even getting the chance for them to explore your product. A lot of people are not willing to spend 20min to try a new app, but those same people may be able to spare 10sec to get started and see what the hype is all about. 🧐 The more interesting stuff:Tinder as the guest list for sister sorority parties. So here is how that went down. The team at Tinder (who a bunch of them were in sororities) would go around campus and pitch all the women sororities on hosting parties for the sorority. There was no official guest list, but rather everyone needed to download the Tinder app and show it to the bouncer before they can enter the party. Of course these sponsored parties were done in collabration with coolest frat on campusPitching brother fraternitiesThe cofounders of Tinder would then go pitch the other half of the greek system. They’d go to the corresponding brother fraternity—they’d open the app and see all these cute girls..they were onboard!More promoters, more pitches parties, more girls, more guys! Thats all they focused on. With limited resources and scarce time, one of the best decisions Tinder made early on was focusing on a single acquisition channel. Once the strategy was working, they hired a few people across different campuses on a contract basis, trained them on how to pitch sorority and let the flywheel spin hard.When did they know it was really gonna be big?"It happened around January. We had been picking up on college campuses, then everyone went home and told their cousins and older brothers and friends about it, and all of a sudden Tinder started growing like a virus."🚀 The journey from hereOnce Tinder showed traction in certain markets, they would then go on to start targeting famous people and celebrities in order to mimic the growth at college campuses except on a larger scale. This strategy of targeting key influencers helped them grow quickly and allowed them to create self-sustaining networks before it gradually was introduced naturally to other demographics.Tinder did not take out ads on Facebook and they did not use the mass email lists of college students that people offered them. They understood that there is a huge difference between someone who downloads the app because they found it on an ad and then never uses it again, versus someone who downloaded the app because their friend had a great experience on it and told them about it. This helped them get the “right” people using Tinder. The one time they actually tried to enter a market through paid advertising was in Turkey, which ended up largely being a dud because their users were quote on quote “different” from users obtained organically. Additionally, focusing on organic growth also helped them stay focused on their core users and refine their product so that it was one people would like enough to share with their friends. Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

SubscribeHello  👋,Happy Tuesday. Last week has been a crazy one for this newsletter as we launched our referral program last week, thanks for all the people that shared First1000 <3  and to those new here, welcome to the family, this is your co-pilot Ali Abouelatta.This week, our case study is on Spotify and how they got from 0 to 1 million customers in 3 years (2 years and 11 months 🙈 to be exact).Tl;dr🤓 Cheating to create the “illusion” of a better than free product🤮 Negotiating with your mortal enemy🚀 Accelerating TTPM (time to product market fit)🤑 The Launch Formula🤓 Cheating to create the “illusion” of a better than free productBefore streaming services came along you might have been guilty of using controversial file sharing sites like Napster, LimeWire and The Pirate Bay to download your music. Not only did Daniel had to convince the music record labels who have been burnt by the tech industry to give up all their most valuable assets for free at first (more on that later), but he also had to convince people to pay for something they already get for free. So how do you build something better than free? The answer for Daniel was speed. The human brain conceives anything that happens in less than 200ms as “instant”, and Daniel wanted nothing short of that. But to set the scene, this was back in 2008, the first iPhone had just been introduced a few years back, internet broadband was probably a tenth of it was today and despite the thousands of engineering hours and 2 years of work that went into achieving that goal, the best the engineering team at Spotify could do was 500ms. So the team spent a ludicrous amount of time creating the illusion of that “instant” magical feel. One of the things they did was making the throttle (the bar showing progress on the song) start immediately upon play rather than show a loading icon. The other thing they did was downloading only the first 15 seconds from the internet and complementing the rest of the song using p2p sharing between Spotify users near you who have already loaded the song you are about to listen to.For customers, speed was Spotify’s competitive advantage. It is what made it X10 better than all the pirating websites that would sometimes take hours to just download a single album. Daniel describes speed of the product as “magical” it is what got Mark Zuckerburg, Sean Parker and almost every tech blogger at the time to sing the praises of Spotify almost as soon as it launched🤮 Negotiating with your mortal enemy"I got on a plane to New York, sat down with all the major labels and some of the bigger indies, and everyone was super supportive. 'Yeah, this seems really interesting, really great, if you can come back in a few weeks we'll try to figure something out.' So I remember walking out, calling my co-founder Martin and saying, 'Well, you know, this seems totally reasonable, we'll do it in about six months.' And about two and a half years later we launched,"Daniel Ek, Cofounder and CEO of SpotifyMost startups have the luxury to go around incumbent players and “disrupt” their industries. After all, Uber didn’t have to work with Taxis, Airbnb didn’t have to work with Hotels, Robinhood didn’t have to work brokers..etc. Spotify, on the other hand, absolutely had to, if it didn’t want to suffer the same demise as Napster and Pirate Bay. To get the music record labels onboard after an almost 2 and half year negotiation Daniel did the following:Instead of negotiating a Global deal, he went after markets that have been crumbled by piracy. 80% of licensing revenue has been lost Sweden due to governments heavy investment in fair access to high bandwidth (meaning Swedish residents were able to download pirated music in minutes rather than hours as was the case in most parts of the world).He guaranteed music record label a one year revenue upfront, no matter what happened to SpotifyAfter he proved his model in EU, he allowed all major record labels to take a combined stake of almost 20% in Spotify (part of their Series A-B round) in part of a global copyright deal. Aligning incentives with your frenemies can be a beautiful thing.🚀 Accelerating TTPM (time to product market fit) “Spotify and The Pirate Bay don’t just share a country;” Mario Sundar agrees, “they share an operating system.”  In many ways, Spotify is an embodiment of Andrew Chen’s 80/20 Rule—that is, products that copy the fundamentals (80%) of a successful product and reinvent the remaining 20% can significantly shorten the time it takes to find product/market fit. However, Chen asserts that the 20% can’t be secondary, tertiary product features, but should be “baked deeply into the core of the product … Something the end user can see and feel within the first 30 seconds.” .Despite the fact that Spotify may share around 80% of its characteristics—after all, value proposition and operating system are by no means minor characteristics—with Napster and Pirate Bay, unlike those two, Spotify is legal, and that distinction might be more significant than it seems (if that’s possible).Growthhackers Humans, in a gross generalization, are not creative creatures. Instead what we are really good at is remixing ideas. The smartest people in the world are, generally speaking, the best at absorbing and seeking knowledge, and translating those acute insights and learnings in a different domain or settings. In Andrew’s essay he discusses how you only need to innovate on the “top 20%” while your foundation, or your 80% stems from best practices and learnings from those who have made it before you did. In Spotify’s case their 20% was in embedding sharing as a core not a parcel feature of the product.Every playlist, every song was a de-facto URL from day one. To demonstrate what that was like, here is what lifehacker had to say about Spotify in one of the very first product reviews about the company, published just a few months after their public launch.Sharing any of your playlists is as easy as sharing a link: iTunes and other desktop players do a fair job of playlist creation, but if you want to share a playlist with a friend, your best bet is still to burn the mix to a CD. Yeah... old school, right? We've featured plenty of web-based music players designed to make sharing playlists a breeze, including MixTape.me (particularly notable to me because I created it).With Spotify, sharing a playlist you've created is as simple as right-clicking any playlist in the sidebar and selecting Copy HTTP link or Copy Spotify URI. Send either link to a friend via email and clicking on it should send them straight to that playlist in Spotify. It's dead simple. A web site has already sprung up dedicated to sharing Spotify playlists. On top of that, Spotify already has tools built in for quickly sharing a playlist via Facebook or Delicious. Pretty cool stuff.Collaborating on playlists is a breeze: But let's say you're not impressed with the simple playlist sharing. Spotify also lets you turn any playlist into a collaborative playlist by, again, simply right-clicking the playlist and then clicking Collaborative Playlist.🤑 The Launch FormulaEach market Spotify launched in, they did three things and did them extremely well. For their hardcore fans: they would debut the premium service a few weeks/months prior to introducing their free version. This way anyone who really wants access to the service before its available to everyone could pay (and they did). Thus capturing as much revenue as possibleFor the general public: they introduced a free version, but it was invite-only. Each new member was given five invitations that they could use to invite their friends, no less no more; making having a Spotify invite a valuable currency and a status symbol within the tech communityTo seed each new market, they gave the first batch of invites to bloggers and notable techies. In the US for instance, Spotify also partnered with Klout, a service that measures online influence, to give out 15,000 to 20,000 invites. This way, as soon as Spotify launched in any new market, and as soon as any blogger wrote about them, they would get bombarded with people asking for invites (and engaging with their content). So they wrote more about the company, and the more they write the more people engage….you know how the flywheel goes.Pre-releases: for instance in the US just a few months after its launch there, Spotify allowed Premium users to listen to John Legend’s new album Evolver, including two additional bonus tracks, a week before it is released to the public.To put it all together, Spotify got their first 1 million customers by spending 2 years and 6 months negotiating with record labels and creating an extremely fast product by using some design hacks and building a P2P infrastructure. They went all in on-risk assumed excruciating losses in their first year by basically paying 100% of the revenue the Record Labels get from licensing music to  the entirety of the Sweden. All whilst embedding social+music and creating some sort of network-effects to tech bloggers each time they write about the company.That’s it for today, see you next Tuesday 😉,SubscribeP.SShareIf you want access to the Spotify (+ Tinder, Snapchat, Intercom, Coinbase, Uber and Youtube) Pitch Decks from very early on , all you have to do is share your favorite First1000 issue on linkedin/Slack and reply to this email with a screenshot.Subscribe

Every month or so, I try to highlight some of the case studies that others have written about how companies got their first 1000 customers. Sometimes they’re just so good I feel selfish not sharing it with all of you. Today is one of those days! Here is how Airbnb got their first 1000 customers, written by some of the brilliant folks @ HBR.SubscribeThe BackstoryIn 2007, designers Brian Chesky and Joe Gebbia could not afford the rent on their San Francisco apartment. To make ends meet, they decided to turn their loft into a lodging space, but, as Gebbia explained, “We didn’t want to post on Craigslist because we felt it was too impersonal. Our entrepreneur instinct said ‘build your own site.’ So we did.”A design conference was coming to town and hotel space was limited, so they set up a simple website with pictures of their loft-turned-lodging space—complete with three air mattresses on the floor and the promise of a home-cooked breakfast in the morning. This site got them their first three renters, each one paying $80; after that first weekend, they began receiving emails from people around the world asking when the site would be available for destinations like Buenos Aires, London, and Japan. Gebbia explained:At that point we started to brainstorm what a larger, international version of the site would be. That was basically our market research. People told us what they wanted, so we set off to create it for them. Ultimately while solving our own problem, we were solving someone else’s problem too. We were at a point professionally where we were very ready to pursue our own idea. We were anxious though, like waiting in line for a roller coaster. We didn’t know exactly what was ahead, but we knew we were in for a ride.The following spring, Chesky and Gebbia enlisted former roommate and engineer Nathan Blecharczyk to help them get AirBed & Breakfast off the ground. They planned the launch around the Democratic National Convention in order to capitalize on the resulting lack of hotel space.Fast forward eight years to 2015, and AirBed & Breakfast, renamed Airbnb, was a household name. As of fall 2015, the platform had annual revenue of approximately $900 million, extensive user growth, and over 1.8 million properties listed worldwide.With a $25.5 billion3 valuation, Airbnb was worth more than legacy players like Wyndham and Hyatt. This tremendous growth helped the company receive over $2.39 billion in eight rounds of funding from 32 investors, such as Y Combinator, Sequoia Capital, Keith Rabois, Andreessen Horowitz, and TPG Growth.Early Growth of Airbnb“Pure Unadulterated Hustle” in the Face of Initial ResistanceIn the summer of 2008, the founders needed a way to raise money. They bought a large amount of cereal and designed special edition election-themed boxes, released that fall—Obama O’s and Cap’n McCain’s, which were sold at convention parties for $40 a box . They sold 500 boxes of each cereal, helping them to raise around $30,000 for AirBed & Breakfast.Despite raising some initial capital, the site did not gain much traction initially, and the founders resorted to living off of leftover Cap’n McCain’s (the Obama O’s sold out)—a time they refer to as a real “low point.” This low point did not last for long, however, as the following spring they had dinner with Paul Graham, founder of startup incubator Y Combinator. Despite recognizing the startup’s potential, Graham admitted to having some initial doubts, explaining, “I thought the idea was crazy. . . . Are people really going to do this? I would never do this.” Nevertheless, AirBed & Breakfast joined Y Combinator’s 2009 winter class, receiving $20,000 in funding. It renamed the business Airbnb, and received another $600,000 in a seed round from Sequoia Capital and Y Ventures.Not everyone was as impressed with Airbnb’s business model, however, and the young startup was also notoriously rejected by Fred Wilson of Union Square Ventures—a decision Wilson later admitted was not a good one. Wilson claimed in 2011 that Union Square kept a box of Obama O’s in their conference room to remind themselves not to make the same mistake again. The cereal also served as an example of an early-stage startup doing everything necessary to get off the ground. As Wilson explained: “Whenever someone tells me that they can’t figure out how to raise the first $25,000 they need to get their company started I stand up, walk over to the cereal box, and tell this story. It is a story of pure unadulterated hustle. And I love it.”But it was not just Airbnb’s business model that posed a concern. When Gebbia and Chesky—both Rhode Island School of Design alums—were initially seeking funding for their startup, potential investors didn’t know what to make of a company with two designers, despite the fact that Blecharczyk, with a solid background in tech, had already signed on as an engineer. Chesky explained that it was hard for many in Silicon Valley to see the company’s potential because “they thought we just made things pretty.”Yet it was most likely this design background that helped Airbnb find such innovative, unexpected solutions—such as the limited-edition presidential cereal campaign—to the very real problems that all early-stage startups faced. It was this ability to innovate that informed much of Airbnb’s growth strategy when it came to acquiring its first thousand customers.Craigslist Platform IntegrationWhen exactly Airbnb implemented what has become its most famous growth hack is unclear, but there was evidence of the Craigslist platform hack as early as 2010.Though the startup worked hard to distinguish itself from the more impersonal, scam-filled classified-style platform, Craigslist had one thing that Airbnb did not—a massive user base.Airbnb knew through both market research and its own experience that Craigslist was the place where people who wanted something other than the standard hotel experience looked for listings—in other words, Airbnb’s target market.In order to tap into this market, Airbnb offered users who listed properties on Airbnb the opportunity to post them to Craigslist as well, despite the fact that there was no sanctioned way on Craigslist to do so. Though fairly straightforward in hindsight, the execution was not simple.In essence, Craigslist saved listing information using a unique URL rather than a cookie. Because of this, Airbnb was able to build a botb to visit Craigslist, snag a unique URL, input the listing info, and forward the URL to the user for publishing .Other aspects of the integration also proved to be challenging. The bot also had to fill out a handful of forms, the simplest of which was the Craigslist category. The specific region proved a bit more of a challenge since there were hundreds of different versions of Craigslist, some much more specific than others—for example, six sub-regions within a region for the Bay Area, yet one Craigslist for the entire state of Maine. This meant it was necessary to visit every Craigslist and scrape the names and codes for every region.Furthermore, there was the issue of the anonymous email assigned by Craigslist. This function had to be turned off and replaced with a link to the Airbnb listing. And to ensure that the listing stood out among the standard Craigslist fare, the platform’s limited HTML support had to be taken into consideration as well. As writer and entrepreneur Andrew Chen explained:This kind of integration is not trivial. A traditional marketer would not even be close to imagining the integration above—there’s too many technical details needed for it to happen. As a result, it could only have come out of the mind of an engineer tasked with the problem of acquiring more users from Craigslist.The benefits of the Airbnb-Craigslist integration were numerous. Not only was it the sheer volume of potential users accessible via Craigslist, but the fact that Airbnb listings were far superior to the other properties available—more personal, with better descriptions and nicer photos—made them more appealing to Craigslist users looking for vacation properties.Once those Craigslist users made the switch, they were more likely to ignore Craigslist and book through Airbnb in the future. In addition, those with properties listed on Airbnb ended up making more money on their listings, which kept them using the service again and again.Craigslist PoachingWhile the first integration got much needed traffic to Airbnb listings, in Craigslist Airbnb saw another opportunity for getting more users to list their properties on Airbnb in the first place. Dave Gooden, who worked in Craiglist’s vacation rental sector, said that in late 2009, he began looking into Airbnb’s mysterious growth. He explained:When a competing company comes on my radar, I always do my due diligence. In my Airbnb research, I didn’t find great SEO results or a gazillion followers on Twitter or any massive advertising spends on Google or Facebook. I looked everywhere but I couldn’t find any rational or traditional reasons for this type of growth. All of these Airbnb users can’t be coming from tech blogs, can they? Word of mouth? I didn’t think so. After thinking on it for a day or two, only one possible answer popped into my head: “These guys are black hats!”To test his theory, Gooden set up a “mouse trap” by posting a couple of rental properties to Craigslist, both using Craigslist’s “anonymous” email option and clearly specifying that he did not want to be contacted about other offers. Within a couple of hours, Gooden says he received an email from a “young lady” who really liked his property and wanted him to check out Airbnb. He claimed that this email alone was 99% of the evidence needed to support his Airbnb-Craigslist spam theory. However, he wanted to be sure the email wasn’t simply from an excited Airbnb user, so he decided to dig a bit more.Over the next weekend, Gooden built a site that used Craigslist email harvesting technology and mass-mailing technology to target Craigslist users with vacation rentals. The result was over 1,000 vacation rental owners who signed up to list their properties on Gooden’s test site. He then re-listed one of the properties on Craigslist, and within a day he received an email complimenting his property and suggesting he list it on Airbnb  The next week, he listed two more properties and received two more emails. The week after that, he listed yet another property, and received two more emails. As Gooden explained:When you scale a black hat operation like this you could easily reach tens of thousands of highly targeted people per day . . . and quickly gain 60,000 members on the supply- side, which again, is the hardest and most important part of growing a market place. I am pretty sure that Airbnb isn’t the only company that has used this strategy or technique, but I think they are the first to turn it into a one hundred million dollar investment at a one billion dollar valuation.Though this hack was not as clever as the Craigslist platform integration discussed previously, it helped Airbnb to grow its listings quickly and at almost no cost.International Expansion: Restarting at Every CountryFrom the earliest days of AirBed & Breakfast when the founders received emails from people around the world requesting the site’s expansion, international users played a significant role in Airbnb’s growth. In May 2011, Gebbia told GigaOM’s Colleen Taylor:This year is about international growth. I mean, some of our biggest cities are in Europe and South America, and they are just starting to emerge. China and Asia are really interesting to us. . . . It’s about localizing the site and making it really easy, bringing the simplicity that we brought for people in the United States to these other countries.In August 2014, Airbnb’s Rebecca Rosenfelt gave a talk entitled “Going for Global,” in which she outlined some of the company’s international growth strategies. Rosenfelt began by pointing out that though people in Silicon Valley think of Airbnb as a mature company, in other parts of the world, it was still more of a “scrappy startup.” She explained, “We’ve had to crack growth over and over and over again as we break into new regions.”Part of the struggle, according to Rosenfelt, was that Airbnb was a two-sided marketplace, meaning that in every new market it attempted to enter, it had to grow both the demand side (travelers) and the supply side (hosts) from almost nothing. As it turned out, the supply side was much harder to grow, as it was difficult to get people comfortable with the idea of opening their homes up to strangers.One market in which Airbnb knew it needed to grow was France; although people were traveling to typical tourist locations in France using Airbnb, not many people were using Airbnb to vacation within France. The company decided to take two approaches to growing, setting up an A/B test in which it chose several small vacation markets within France that it thought would be popular. It randomly selected half of the locations to physically visit, and half to target using Facebook ads.In the markets the company physically visited, teams of two to three people would talk to the few users already in that market to get an idea of what was going on. They would also throw parties and info sessions, set up booths around town, post flyers, and, as Rosenfelt said, “do whatever it takes.” They also made sure to get contact info for everyone they talked to who showed interest in hosting, and they followed up later with more information, an offer to create a listing for them to review, and the like.Airbnb kept meticulous track of what it cost to visit people (including the cost of throwing parties, setting up booths, and other “on the ground” activities) and the listings that resulted, and compared that to the Facebook ads and resulting listings in the markets it did not visit. It turned out that cost per acquisition was five times better for actually sending people into markets.After kick-starting these markets with a human presence, Airbnb kept growing two times faster by itself. Based on Airbnb’s experience, Rosenfelt claimed that sometimes it was beneficial to do things that did not scale, because a non-scalable tactic might be more scalable than initially thought, as was the case with sending teams into new markets. At the very least, these initiatives resulted in valuable feedback in terms of what was going on and informed other, more scalable opportunities for growth.Hope you enjoyed this as much as I did,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Hello 2021,I can not be more excited about this week’s issue of First 1000. For the 300+ people that signed up since our last issue Welcome to the family 🤓. As a recap, this weekly newsletter is about how companies got their first 1000 customers. Our company today is Classpass.If this was forwarded to you by a smart friend sign up ⬇️SubscribeSponsored ByIf you enjoy First 1000, you will definitely enjoy reading The Modern Product Manager. You’ll find courses built by Alex Mitchell, a 4x Product Leader and 1x Founder & other technology leaders.Whether you’re an aspiring Product Manager, a brand-new Product Manager, or a Product Manager looking to level-up, there is a course for you.Inspiration Be in love with the problem, not the productThe story of Classpass is a story of resilience. Payal Kadakia, Founder and now Executive chairwoman of the billion-dollar fitness, wellness, and beauty membership startup ClassPass, dedicated her entire life adult life to dancing. She would miss night outs to go dancing, she left her last performance review at Bain Consulting early to go to dancing practice, and two years before starting Classpass, she started a dance studio, "The Sa Dance Company," where she still performs shows to this day (at least before the covid-19). Payal found refuge in dance; as an Indian immigrant and MIT graduate, she persistently had an internal conflict between her American and Indian identities. Dancing was a way to bring those two closer together and a means of self expression. For Payal, she wanted more people to experience the joy of dancing and feel the way she did after each performance. That was her why. It is imperative that the "why" comes from a deep place, from a moment, a feeling, or a realization; this is perhaps the only way to keep going when things don't go your way. In Payal's case, it took four years and three major product pivots before she finally was able to find the right solution to the problem. Throughout the journey, this serendipitous moment of joy after each dance practice was what kept her going. She knew how powerful exercising was to one's mental and physical health, and her mission was to get more people to experience that.BackstoryStraight out of MIT, Payal joined the Bain consulting group where she spent the first three years of her career. In a performance review,  her manager asked, "if this (consulting) was what she wanted to do for the rest of her life?" Deep down, she knew it wasn't, but she wasn't ready yet to take the risk and go all-in on entrepreneurship. So she took what she calls a "mini-risk" to build up that risk-taking muscle. Payal would soon leave Bain to join the music industry behemoth Warner Music Group where she worked on licensing deals with Daniel Ek at Spotify and the partnerships team at Youtube. Taking that job gave her some bandwidth to start building a dance company on the side (since consulting was an 80 hour/week kind of job). This mini-risk gave her the time to build her confidence up, and after two years she quit her job to finally start a company! Payal explains how Classitivity (the precursor to ClassPass) came to beI went out to San Francisco for a friend's birthday in 2010, and all my friends were building apps. I remember being like, "You do this full time?" They were like, "Yeah." I realized, What if I thought of an idea? I felt like I could build something. So I said to myself, I'm going to take two weeks to see if I can think of an idea. If I can think of an idea I care about, maybe this is worth it. A day and a half after I got back, I went online to look for a ballet class. I end up on the traditional four or five dance studios that I know. I have seven tabs open. I can't figure out which one to go to. One's at 6:15. One's at 6:30. I don't know if the teacher is good. I don't know if it's a beginner. Do I have the right stuff? An hour goes by, and I don't pick which class to go to, and I never go to class that day. And I remember that day, starting to think, Wow, so many people are always looking for classes. What if I could build a search engine for classes? It doesn't exist, and it's something that I think a lot of people would find useful.Champagne Success - Classtivity100 Reservations - 18 monthsIn February 2011, Payal started officially working on Classitivity. The idea of Classtivity was simple; it was a search engine featuring thousands of classes, expert recommendations, and tips that they scrapped from all over the internet. Classtivity was gorgeous; Payal and her team had spent 16 months working on it before they finally launched to the public. Throughout those first 16 months, Payal joined the startup accelerator Techstars, raised a few hundred thousand dollars, and had been on the cover of __Inc Magazine. She was also featured in Mashable, Business Insider, Gigaom, and almost every tech and business blog. For many on the outside, that was what success looked like. But in reality, Classtivity was making a meager 10 bookings/month despite all the press and buzz around the company. Whereas the entire premise of the business was generating millions of leads to the boutique studios and getting paid a small referral fee on each booking/lead they generate. This is a classic case of "Champagne success"; when you are bombarded by false indicators of success (PR, Money raised, Keynote speeches..etc.) day in and day out, but in reality, success is the furthest thing from the truth at that point.For the next three months, Payal would go into what she describes as the "summer of buttons." So, in the middle of the summer, we started playing with buttons. I always remember I call it "the summer of buttons," 'cause we were contemplating—well, maybe it's cause the color's wrong, or the shape is wrong. We thought it might be a UI problem, and it wasn't.It is incredibly easy to fall prey to trying to solve things under your control, especially when things aren't going your way (changing the UI experience, adding more features, redesigning your website). It is rather hard to face the music and go back to your original hypothesis and say, "I was wrong...why was that? and what I can learn from it?"After going through this gruesome experience, Payal realized she needed to take massive swings. She needed to experiment with big ideas that moved the needle. After spending nearly two years working on Classtivity with a meager 100 or so reservations to show for it, she went back to the drawing board and asked herself, what was wrong with Classtivity?Passport 20,000 Reservations - 6 monthsIn the fall of 2012, commencing the end of the "Summer of Buttons," Payal started working on a new idea to drive reservations, which she debuted as Passport. she identified three major problems to solve:How to minimize the number of decisions users need to make at one time. How can they rapidly experiment with different ideas? The first version of Classtivity took 16  months (plus two extra months of optimizing UI).  How can they confidently measure success with leading rather than lagging metric. While the number of reservations was a decent indicator, it was deceptive. Committing to a healthier lifestyle is hard, and having many people going to a fitness class once or twice a year would be detrimental to the Classtivity business.To answer these questions, Payal paused the building of scrapers and APIs and went on a tour asking every fitness studio she could, "How do you get people to class?" She started calling up users who signed up to Classtivity and asked them what she needs to do to get them to class. A simple yet powerful realization was that most studios offered the first class for free (and still do). The fruit of Payal's labor from interviewing studios and customers and trying to solve the three identified problems with Classtivity was Passport. Passport was a $49 one-off purchase for new users to try out up to 10 classes in 30 days (with an average saving of 60%). Passport solved the first problem by separating the purchase decision from going to class, as Payal this concept below.You buy it (Passport) at a completely different point. Then the next day, when you're ready to go to class, we've made you think, 'Well, I have credits, so I should use them.' People always tell us they feel like a kid in a candy store... the product minimizes the number of decisions users need to make at one time, thereby reducing friction and increasing ability to capture and convert a user.With Passport (and later on Classpass), Payal was as scrappy as one could be. She didn't spend months designing the pixel perfect product. Instead, she decided to do things as manually as possible. Reed Hoffman, Cofounder of Linkedin and General Partner at Greylock, would often say, "if you are not embarrassed by your first release, you launched too late." With Passport, Payal took this advice to heart; for her, time to market was of the most essence at this point.  Anything that any measure she could take to accelerate time to market, she did, and everything that prolonged that was a distraction.We started building the product to do what it needed to for the customer. Most of the stuff on the backend was either done manually or didn't work. Someone would make a class reservation at this time, and I would get an email. Then I would go and make the reservation manually. Instead of building out the perfect booking system, what I needed to figure out at this point was what was going to motivate people to make a reservation and then go to class. The rest didn't matter.The product became a product because of the insights and the learnings we got from directly interacting with our customers — on top of the technology. But we had to guide the technology with our thinking and our learning. Those many days I spent inputting reservations manually turned into another valuable stream of customer insights. I quickly learned not to book reservations right away, as half of the cancellations came within 15 minutes of booking. That became an important part of the design of our cancellation policies. The Passport launched in December 2012 and was a quick hit. Reservations were finally coming in — 20,000 in the first six months alone. As for measuring success, Payal explains.Once the product started working, the number of reservations per person became the clearest representation of true north... I'd rather have 150 people using it weekly than 1,500 attending the occasional class.Classpass100,000 Reservations - 2-3 monthsIt is easy to draw lines of how Passport would evolve to Classpass but, in fact, the development was completely accidental. Payal noticed that some of the users who have purchased the Passport were trying to cheat the system; they would create new accounts after the 30 days expired and continue exploring different fitness studios all around New York. This pattern of behavior was antithetical to the hypothesis behind the Passport. When Payal created the Passport the underlying thesis was that it was an easy, frictionless way for users to "window shop" different fitness studios before committing to the one they love. But with more and more people trying to cheat the system, it was apparent that people didn't want to commit to just one place; they liked the flexibility and variety of Passport. The key insight was that having a "bag of classes" subscription model was in itself a value proposition for the user rather than an acquisition tactic or a lead gen tool as Payal had previously envisioned. Building Classpass wasn't a no-brainer. The Passport was a profit machine for starters since the studios offered all these introductory classes for free in hopes of getting customers later on. Payal bundled all these different offerings into a $49 one-off purchase....100% of that $49 price tag went back to Classtivity. On a deeper level though, it wasn't sustainable because as Payal realized that users not going back to the studio and purchasing a membership meant that the studios were giving away all these classes for free and not getting much in return. So in March 2013, 3 months after the launch of Passport, Payal started working on Classpass. For $99, users can sign up for local classes from hundreds of studios ranging from Barry's Boot Camp to Exhale Spa to Flywheel Sports. ClassPass worked with each venue on an agreed-upon referral rate and pocketed the rest of the monthly subscription. Users can only register for the same venue three times per month so ClassPass doesn't cannibalize its partners' loyal customers and pricing.Classpass officially launched in March 2013, and within 2 months, the team had hit an aggregate of 100,000 reservations between the Passport and ClasspassI remember when we hit 100,000 reservations, a few months after we launched ClassPass. We have a nice photo. We had around six employees then, and we all brought our sneakers in and we wrote 100K on the floor and took a photo1000 Classpass Subscribers.Once Payal found her footing with the $99 Classpass product, it was time to turn on the growth machine. Throughout the past 3 years Payal had only raised $500k. After three unsuccessful attempts to raise further money in 2012, Payal shifted her focus to hit $1m in run rate before the end of 2013 (9 months after the launch of Classpass). That was the magic number in the bay area at the time to get the company to its next round of funding. To hit 1m run rate, she needed 1000 customers each paying $99/month.Classpass x LululemonBeyond the press and word of mouth, the most successful growth lever to get the first 1000 Classpass subscribers were offering new members a $100 Lululemon gift card, if they stay with the service for six months. Usually, companies provide you introductory promotions to start using their service, but Payal wanted users to build a long forming habit. From the moment you sign up, users were motivated to hit that six months milestone, and over time, built up the muscle memory of having Classpass as part of their daily/weekly routine. While it was perhaps one of the biggest levers for Classpass growth early on...it did not last very longOne day I get to the office and there's like a letter on my desk and I open it and it's a cease and desist from Lululemon.. God… and I remember you know, my first instinct was like, oh no, should I be scared? But then I was like, oh my God Lululemon knows who we are, it was one of those moments where I remember celebrating kind of because we were so small right and to sort of be on the radar of a company like that.Referral MarketingPeople wanted to talk about Classpass; it was a novel product (One subscription for all your fitness classes). Classpass aggressively went after fitness blogs. People would start talking about the Classpass experience and what its like to visit 10 different studios or try out 10 various activities in 30 days. The idea was novel enough that people felt they had something valuable to say about it.Going unlimitedAfter the inital success of Classpass and after securing $4m in funding by the beginning of 2014, Payal was ready to take Classpass to the next level. Up until the end of 2013 Classpass was still a product offering within Classtivity. At the beginning of 2014, Classtivity was rebranded as Classpass, and all the other products (including the very profitable Passport) were killed to focus the company on growing Classpass.The biggest hit for Classpass in 2014 was a summer promotion campaign from memorial day to labor day. Instead of having ten classes/month for $99, you will get unlimited classes throughout the three summer months. The promotion was so successful that it caught the eyes of every wanna-be entrepreneur. Within weeks tens of copycats emerged in cities all around the world (Classpass was just in New York at the time) offering unlimited classes for $99. Going Global Payal's hand was forced, that summer promotion ended up being the new Classpass business model (for a few years at least). The unlimited model was like pouring fuel on the fire. The company would double or even triple its userbase every 1-2 months. Over the course of the next 6 months, Payal managed to raise $52m and embarked on a mission to take Classpass to 40 cities all over the world over the next two years. There was a new Classpass clone in every major city, and with a healthy balance sheet, Payal was able to knock them down one after the other just like dominos.Refer 5 people in January -> get $25 gift cardReferral LinkThats it for today, see you next week 😉Subscribe

Welcome to this week’s issue of First 1000. The weekly newsletter that talks about how companies got their first 1000 customers. If this was forwarded to you by a smart friend sign up ⬇️ SubscribeThis week I invited  Toghrul Samad, Founder of Buglance, to talk about Fatal Fight the game he developed that would inspire the creation of Buglance. Toghrul, based in Azerbaijan at the time goes into the nitty gritty of how he growth hacked his way to 5m downloads…0 VC money needed!@Toghrul…take it over from hereThe story of Fatal Fight started in 2015. Back then when going global and having 5 million downloads on Google Play Store seemed to be the wildest dream of every game developer. "How you made that a reality?" - some may wonder. Well, look no further than this article, where we uncover all the development stages of Fatal Fight and practical tools used to achieve success.ResearchThe idea of Fatal Fight did not come from nowhere. Before understanding what game to develop, the existing gaps of the global mobile game market. For that, we followed several steps.First, we looked for the most searched mobile games on Google Play Store. Turned out, the top 3 were:Puzzle GamesCar GamesFighting GamesThis helped us immensely in narrowing down our research. We played the most downloaded games from each category ourselves to figure out if those games meet users’ needs while also trying to figure out the challenges users were facing during gameplay.As a result, Puzzle and Car Games had a wide range of mobile games with pretty nice UI/UX design and other characteristics. However, for the Fighting Games Category - the overall picture was quite different.We were surprised to find out that there were very few games with satisfactory features. And we were not the only ones to think so - hundreds of users craved a much better experience in fighting games.With more research into users' feedback, we understood the main reason why the problem occurred - it was the complexity of gameplay. Users found it difficult to punch, kick, jump, and do all sorts of moves separately or all at once on a smartphone.And this is when we discovered a gold nugget to make us keep digging - mobile Fighting Games were not good enough for the users and did not meet their needs.Moreover, according to Google Play Store search rankings the keyword “addictive games” was one of the top ones. Users wanted games that would excite them, make them want to come back for more, and do so on a daily basis. Here is the final conclusion we made:“We need to create an enjoyable fighting game with easy-to-play gameplay that will retain users”Based on the research, we decided that our game would not have complex gameplay. We had the idea to duplicate the gameplay of a PC fighting game on a mobile game. Although controversial, it came to us after exploring a PC game called "One Finger Death Punch".In this game, the fighting was simply managed by clicking on the left and right mouse buttons. This type of gameplay was an absolute match to what we were envisioning in our mobile fighting game. As a result, we took it as a good case practice and added “Left” and “Right” taps on mobile as an alternative to the same thing on the mouse.Although this gameplay served as a good case practice for us - there wasn't much else to get inspired by. Even the name of the game was screaming “I am the name of the game that no one ever will remember”. We understood that there probably was never a decent marketing strategy set up for this game.With our first prototype, we wanted to make sure that the gameplay fit our users' needs. The graphics were not our main focus at the time (as you can tell from the screenshot below), rather we focused on the interaction between users and the game, and if it was comfortably managed.Winning the Google Play Store OptimizationNaming is another important point to take into account while developing a mobile game. It needs to be easy to remember and tailored to Play Store Optimization. The reason why we named our game “Fatal Fight” was the popular game “Mortal Kombat”. Yes, the game that won the admiration of billions was an inspiration for us in many ways.Back then (in 2015 for those, who might have forgotten) there was no mobile version of Mortal Kombat. However, again the keyword “Mortal Kombat” had high rankings in Google Play. This means a lot of people were searching for this game on mobile but could not find it.The truth is: If SEO (or Play Store Optimization) cannot find the exact keyword it always looks for synonyms.Based on that, we decided to use synonyms for the words “Mortal” and “Combat” and combine them. And eventually, the name "Fatal Fight" was born.We knew that the audience looking for Mortal Combat on the store would end up finding Fatal Fight. Although that felt like a big responsibility to the Mortal Combat lovers, we were confident that they would appreciate our universal mobile fighting game.Of course, we were also inspired by the graphics of Mortal Combat and their characters like Lui Kang, Raiden, and Kung Lao - which certainly helped us meet the original game's fans' expectations.Once finished with all that, we had one thing in our mind: “We want to go global”.Soft-launchBefore opening up to the whole world, we made a soft-launch. Soft-launch is testing your product in a market that is less interesting for your business and is definitely not the final target. The reason is building up a feedback loop where you get the reviews from the users while developing the product according to the users’ needs.Another thing that needs to be tracked during this period is the following key metrics in the Play Store:LTV — Lifetime ValueARPU — Average Revenue Per UserARPPU — Average Revenue Per Paying UserLTV metric is the one that evaluates the average revenue that a single customer brings throughout his/her lifespan. Returning users to your app (in other words those who do not delete games right after the first try) of huge interest to Play Store. Active users bring the revenue through advertisement featuring in the apps through AdMob (which is the product of Google too). This is where the increment of ARPU metrics happen as well as those of ARPPU. While tracking these metrics, we could evaluate whether our game development is going in the right direction. The better metrics, the higher probability that your app will appear on the first page of Google Play Store.We launched the game in Azerbaijan where we aimed to get as much feedback as possible. This was the way we wanted to fix all the bugs and be better prepared for the market that we considered as a target one. As a result, we fixed all major bugs in the app and got a 4.8 ranking in the Play Store.The soft-launch stage could finish there, but we decided not to. We entered another alternative market — Russia. Although this soft-launch would make us consider aspects like the differences in cultures and user habits, we went after one thing - the scale. In Russia in 2015, the number of smartphone users was around 51.3 million. This market was an amazing opportunity for us to test further and bigger.In a few weeks, after launching the game in the new market, we started to receive negative reviews while losing traffic. All of them was regarding one thing:Most of the Russian users did not have a Facebook account where they needed to invite their friends or were not willing to pay $1 (one of these was required to proceed to pass to the next stage once they reached the 10th stage).We realized that we needed to come up with something universal at this stage of the game. We replaced Facebook invitations to «gain 30 starts during the first 10 stages and be able to pass to the next stages once reached the 10th one” kind of solution.As a result of all these iterations with soft-launching, we got pretty high metrics in the Play Store that impacted our Play Store Optimization Google Play Store gives your product a ranking based on the ranking you had in other countries where you had already launched. So if your soft-launch in Germany was successful with high rankings and positive reviews, the game would automatically have a good ranking once you launched globally.Wise Choice of Operating SystemYou might notice that so far in the article I mentioned everything about Android and its Play Store - that is not by accident.Usually, developers first launch mobile apps on IOS OS. The argument behind it is that the majority of people are IOS users or the fact that the purchasing power of this particular segment is higher rather than that Android users have. We questioned those statistics because for us it seemed like a myth.We compared the metrics Average Revenue Per Paying User and Average Revenue Per User. For both operating systems it was the same amount. In our case, the app weight of Fatal Fight was heavy and would only work on flagship smartphones that anyways cost a lot.Here are a few other reasons why we consciously choose Android over IOS:Market Share. Sensor Tower reports that the Google Play Store pulled in approximately 75.7 billion first-time apps installed worldwide in 2018. Comparatively, the App Store only drove 29.6 billion.Fast process. The updates on Android are being approved faster than on IOS. When giving our first build to IOS it took the game 3 months to be added to the App Store.The difference in algorithms. Google Play Store is more generous with organic traffic. If you have built a great app, it will reward you with organic traffic - in IOS - not so much. You need to buy traffic for money. For a long time, making apps popular through incentivized traffic was the leading strategy for Apple App Store. It involves some negatives including low lifetime value for the users. When users are incentivized by a reward, they are more likely to install your app without actually wanting it. This often makes it easier for them to uninstall your app after a few days. We wanted users to authentically choose us. Users who choose to involve themselves with the app due to personal interest — was the priority both for our team and apparently for Android. This is why we love Google Play Store over Apple App Store.Going GlobalWhen we finally published Fatal Fight on IOS, Apple featured us in the “Top new games'' category. It was not just a matter of luck. The game was developed using the Unity 3d engine, so we were using the same code for both platforms. The secret was the whole journey that this product passed with Android. The huge amount of Android users we were able to test the app with allowed us to launch a much better and polished version of the game in the App Store.Famous British blogger Deji also featured the game in his “Paintball Challenge” video on YouTube. Right after that, we were in top rankings in the USA and UK.Now that we were in both stores, going global and growing bigger - our aim was to continue improving our product based on feedback, remaining agile, and keeping the high rankings. We were pretty successful in the beginning. However, there were some bugs we could not fix.Once we started receiving more feedback, all users had the same issue - " I cannot hear the music and the sounds". These reports came from Samsung device users only. We had several Samsung devices in the house. There were no issues with the sound in these devices. Then we noticed another pattern.Apparently, this feedback came only from one Samsung device users - namely Galaxy Tab 2. Eventually, we bought the device, reproduced the bug, and fixed it - users would no longer have that issue.Unfortunately, that wasn't the end of it - a major issue occurred with the new update. All of our users lost their game progress - no matter the number of stages - it all crashed.Imagine losing the progress of a game where you spent your time, energy, and also money on digital goods. In other words, millions of users had to give up on the mobile game that already became a part of their lifestyle.After 3 years in the market, we sold “Fatal Fight” to ITech Media Solutions in Estonia. Later they entered the Chinese market and released it on taptap.com which was one of the biggest Android mobile apps markets in the country. Fatal Fight became the number 1 most downloaded app on taptap.com.Even when it seemed like all the risks were minimized, occasionally, there would still be major issues. But - do not get discouraged! While reflecting on our long journey with Fatal Fight, I - as a CEO, realized that if there was a platform to test all types of devices - any game could succeed.The realization was a turning point for me and an inspiration for my next startup.I have built Buglance to help other developers to release better mobile apps. It includes a network of 50K testers worldwide representing 10K+ unique devices. Here you are free to choose the type of device, country, demographics to test your app to make sure it works best for your audience. If we had Buglance at the time of creating Fatal Fight, it would have saved us a whole lot of time, money, and energy. In other words, we built it so you would not have to make the same mistakes and could launch the next million install game.Before you goCheckout Consumer StartupsA special shout out to another great substack newsletter - Consumer Startups. My buddy Leo is working on a Substack called Consumer Startups. He writes about the founding stories behind the most successful early-stage B2C startups and how the best B2C investors like David Tisch evaluate early-stage startups. Make sure to check it out if you are interested in social apps, brands, marketplaces, and all things consumers.Earn $25 Amazon Gift Card - NOT A LOTTERYRefer 5 people in January…get $25 gift card. Everybody wins….use ur referral link ⬇️⬇️⬇️Make $25 🤑

To the 200+ new subscribers since last week....welcome 👋. This is First 1000, a newsletter about how companies got started and how they landed their first customers. How did Bloomberg get started?Michael Bloomberg, a Harvard MBA graduate, started his career at Salomon Brothers, an investment bank that pioneered what we came to know today as block trading. During Salomon's brothers' acquisition by Phibro, Michael Bloomberg was pushed out despite being a firm’s partner. Don’t bring up the tissues just yet; this deal netted him $10m, which were critical in his endeavor to create the Bloomberg Terminal. Bloomberg would spend in access of $4m to fund the creation of his Software + Hardware Bloomberg terminal before landing a single customer.Year 1 of the journey: Side Hustling0 customersIf we are to OKR Bloomberg's journey, the first year's OKRs were:Bring in some Cashflow to fund the operationBuild "Street Cred" on Wall StreetTo hit #1, Bloomberg and the team started doing some consulting work on the side. One of his consulting customers were Merrill Lynch & co. This was an exciting project, not because of its nature but because Merrill would have been the perfect first customer to Bloomberg. Big investment bank - ✅Wildly respected in the industry - ✅Did not have their in-house solution - ✅✅✅Bloomberg spent six months working closely with Merrill's team and netted $100k from his consulting work (plus expenses). Still, this $100k is nothing close to what came after year 2: an intro to Ed Moriarty, the person that runs the Capital Markets division at Merrill Lynch.Year 2 of the journey: 10m errand boy0 customersOkai so Bloomberg somehow still had access to the Merrill Lynch offices, and after building some credibility there because of his consulting work, he was determined to land them as his first client! Go big or go home!Bloomberg would wake up and buy two coffees and 2teas (one with milk and one without) every day. He would roam around the Merrill Offices to find anyone reading the newspaper at 7:00 am Hi, I am Mike Bloomberg. I brought you a cup of coffee. Can I talk to you?The effort paid off, and he finally got that meeting with Ed Moriarty, the person in the company that would have the ability to pull the trigger on something like Bloomberg terminal. Year 3 of the journey: Selling a product that doesn't exist1 customerI implied with perhaps some minimal embellishment that everything but the packaging was completed, I made my pitch.If there is anything to be learned from Bloomberg's pitch to Merrill lynch its this: Going All-in on risk*Going All-in on Guarantees**Especially if you are selling a B2B productAfter Bloomberg made his pitch, the team at Merrill Lynch were unimpressed.We can do this internallySo Bloomberg asked them how long it would take, and the response he got was, If we don't have anything new to develop, we can probably get started in 6 months.So Bloomberg did a business school 101, he eliminated the downside risk for Merril Lynch.I'll get it done in six months, and if you don't like it, you don't have to pay for it. That was a non-brainer for Merril Lynch, and it was perhaps the fastest decision ever made at the firm. After it was all said and done, Bloomberg bought himself some time; it wasn't until 2-3 months later that the final contract would be signed, and on a technicality, his six months promise would only start then. What happened after was shocking; when the 6 months were up, Bloomberg went to present his new terminal machines, and after running the first function, the whole thing crashed…you would expect this to be the rock bottom of which he emerges victories but it wasn’t at all!Instead the team at Merrill Lynch popped some champagne’s open to celebrate this moment (🤨🤨). It was the principle that they delivered something (almost at least) on time that would be (kind of) useful for the team.  Any doubt, the Merrill executives had up to this point completely disappeared. They even went on two commit to buying two additional units (the original contract was 20). With some critical feedback, and time Bloomberg finally hammered down all the software bugs one at a time, and with the wind at his back from landing one of the top 5 banks as his client...the sky was the limit for the then 42-year-old Michael Bloomberg.This is the story of how Bloomberg got their first customer, I really hope you enjoyed reading this!See you next week,

Subscribe😴How Snapchat got started?Snapchat was created by a trio of Stanford University students in 2011, and it quickly disrupted the industry of multimedia messages and content sharing. Retrospectively, we can see that Snapchat’s ascension was based on three marketing pillars: target audience fitting, focus on engagement, and a word of mouth growth engine. Most of Snapchat's growth hacks have flowed organically from those strategies, such as target audience pivot, a sense of security, social obligation, FOMO (fear of missing out), one-to-one communication at scale, instant onboarding.Subscribe😭Snapchat PivotIn early 2011, Reggie Brown brought the idea for a “disappearing pictures” app to Evan Spiegel because Spiegel had prior business experience (a year before this, he launched a failed startup called Future Freshman, providing students and parents with valuable advice about the college application process). Spiegel presented its first incarnation as part of a project for his product design class.Unexpectedly, the project didn't go over well at Stanford, and many students mocked the concept, but Spiegel didn't give up in the face of criticism. Brown and Spiegel instead pulled in Bobby Murphy, who had coding experience. The three worked closely together for several months, and on July 8, 2011, launched Snapchat as "Picaboo" on iOS. The app was primarily for making a photo (the ability to send video snaps appeared a year later), which can be edited to include filters and effects, text captions, and drawings and sent privately to selected contacts, or a semi-public "Story." There was also a much larger public story called "Our Story."Subscribe🕴Pitching everyone and their mother.Mere months after the release the company received a cease-and-desist letter from the photo book company with the same name ("Picaboo"), so the guys had to rebrand their app as Snapchat. At the same time, Reggie Brown - beyond the idea, he designed the famous mascot "Ghostface Chillah" - was ousted from the company. He initiated a lawsuit against the company a year after rebranding. Snapchat has since settled the lawsuit in 2014 for $157.5 million.Moreover, along with those issues appeared the guys faced the fact that their app had no real traction and popularity among millennials they tried to attract. Initially, they introduced the app only to a few friends and family, then they moved to their Stanford University community, and finally even tried to pitch it directly to the people in their city.Subscribe🥇It only takes one Super fan!Having the MVP (Minimal Viable Product) running, they tried a lot of channels and instruments to get users. They showed the app to people one on one, giving tutorials, explaining why it was fun, even downloading the app for them. They went to shopping malls to hand out flyers advertising Snapchat to passersby, saying things like “Hey, would you like to send a disappearing picture?” They tried to reach journalists to get some coverage. Brown even toyed with positioning the app as a sexting tool. “Picaboo lets you and your boyfriend send photos for peeks and not keeps!” reads a draft of a press release he wrote. Unfortunately, nothing worked. By the end of summer 2011, Picaboo had only 127 users.Finally, as it happens, luck came to their rescue. It turned out that Spiegel's mother had told his cousin who was in school about this app who later showed it to his classmates. The app became an instant hit and rapidly spread throughout Southern California. By early 2012, it's active user base had increased to 30,000. The guys swiftly got the hint and pivoted the app to Generation Z teens. Since that key discovery, teenagers have been Snapchat’s core user base. All of their further decisions were rooted from this target audience refocus.Subscribe🚀Growth PillarsAs marketers know, the teenage audience has specific vulnerabilities to exploit and triggers to manipulate - Snapchat, with its core features, used these vulnerabilities and triggers to craft some powerful growth hacks.First came a friction-free creation growth hack embedded into the product that favored teens because of their natural impatience. After launching the app, the camera was immediately activated, encouraging instant photo-capturing. Traditional photo-sharing apps like Instagram opened a feed to consume media, requiring an additional tap to create. Beyond that, disappearing photos mean less digital clutter, removing the cognitive overhead of dealing with them and saving memory on phones. Those may appear like minor inconveniences, but in reality, even the slightest friction can have a large impact on teenage audience.Second came a sense of security growth hack. It was a pure marketing feature that made it seem like nothing would be permanent on Snapchat. Even their positioning slogan was “On Snapchat, nothing is permanent.” Of course, that was not true, but that was positioned as a core feature until 2014 when FDA (Federal Trade Commission) prohibited Snapchat to "misrepresent the extent to which it maintains the privacy, security, or confidentiality of users' information." It’s no surprise that in the early days the app was known mostly by webcam models (aka amateur porn stars) and teens who didn’t want to be caught using the same social network as their parents (Facebook aka “Evil Corp” for Gen Z) to sext/text each other.Third, came a social obligation growth hack. The team embedded read-receipts: each snap would include a read-receipt, informing senders that their message was viewed. This subtle indicator has significant impact on the dynamics of these interactions, creating a social obligation for recipients to reply quickly especially for teens. That read-receipt subconsciously turns a simple question “Did you get my message?” into a commodity: “do you respect me?” and ”are you ok with me?”Fourthly, FOMO (fear of missing out) growth hack clicked with the school students organically as well, working particularly well on girls in schools who are constantly on their phones. All core features of Snapchat have enhanced everyone's FOMO: 10-second maximum snaps leaving friends craving more to know what is happening in your snap, a 24 hour storyboard, meaning friends can replay stories over and over but only for the next 24 hours, and location stickers that communicate jealous “jet set” lifestyle, even if it's just down the road.That growth hack combo led to higher response rates and more expedient replies, increasing usage in schools. During the school year that social obligation feature even displaced sexting. By that time 80% of Snaps were sent during the day (the school day specifically), suggesting that they were less about sex.Subscribe🛰Growth EngineAt the same time, the guys embedded a viral growth engine right into the product. I’m speaking of their fifth growth hack: one-to-one communication at scale. Group messaging and social network “feeds” are channels for one-to-many communication. These messages are implicit broadcasts, not directed to specific individuals unless mentioned. In turn, consumers of the message have no obligation to respond and in some cases, may be hesitant to reply in a public forum.After crafting a message, Snapchat users must select who to send it to;they get the option to submit it to one or many individuals, yet recipients can’t discern whether a message was sent to just them or several people. And this is the growth hack of Snapchat. It enables a single message to have a broad reach while maintaining the intimacy of one-to-one communications, which leads to a higher volume of outgoing messages and increased response rates as users feel obligated to return the favor.Using the teenagers’ extended curiosity along with the scaled one-to-one concept added fuel to the viral growth of the Snapchat. Most teenagers learned about Snapchat before ever having to download the app themselves) by seeing friends use it or even taking part in the experience by jumping in for group selfies. The app’s usage reflects the way high school works, and the group behaviors that are well-established with teenagers. Just the term “group selfies” prompts conversation. Thus, the app entitles groups to gather around a phone to view a Snap before it disappears. In 2012, 30% of Snaps were sent to groups.This popularity and word of mouth between teens was an integral part of Snapchat’s growth not only within peer groups, but also with its original users’ parents. As kids moved to Snapchat, their parents quickly followed, and the service became a way for teens to communicate with their parents too. Since 2012 Snapchat’s growth channels have been comprised word of mouth (68%), invites (19%), and press (9%).In the beginning of 2012, to manage all this growth hacks and keep the focus on the target audience, Snapchat hired a community marketing manager, their first employee, and by October of that year, the user base had increased to 1,000,000 and the app processed over 231 photos shared per second.That’s it for today, couldn’t help myself with a bonus issue.See you next week 😉,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Hello EveryoneThis is the third issue to to be released this week! Crazy I know! For the 250+ new members welcome welcome welcome, this is the best decision you made in your life last week! As a refresher this newsletter talks about how companies got their very first customers.Today I am extremely excited to introduce something new, an Indie hacker company! Ramy Khuffash went full-time Indie in 2018 and hasn’t looked back since, he runs a few projects like PageFlows, ScreenJar and Inboxflows that generate him enough income that he can work whenever he wants, wherever he wants! Honestly I was a little bit jealous during my conversation with Ramy.What is PageFlows?PageFlows is a video directory of a curated set of user flows, you need inspiration to create a new onboarding experience? What are some of the best practices for an exit flow? Don’t Know where to get started on asking for an upsell? The answer to all these questions and more is on PageFlowsHow it got started?When Ramy launched his design newsletter X on Product Hunt, it went viral! He accumulated over 20k subscribers organically over the next few years and well wanted make some $$$ out of that newly found audience he acquired.  He started reaching out to a few of his subscribers asking something along the lines ofWhat is one thing you would be willing to be money for?Seeding his paid product with an engaged newsletter audienceA lot of the conventional startup advice is to be your own customers, and try to solve your own problems. But as with my experience writing this newsletter, the majority the companies we covered did something that is counterintuitive to what people talk about. Airbnb was created out out of solving its founders problems, but Wayfair was not. In fact the founders of Wayfair have repeatedly iterated how they “are not really passionate about furniture” even after running an online furniture company for almost 20 years. Similarly with PageFlows, Ramy found out what his audience problems were rather than his own. This way he did not have to go to square one again to try to seed his new paid products with users. The big FailA few weeks went by, Ramy launched his UX library product for $14/month, which was rather arbitrary at the point. He did everything right, plugged it into his massive audience, did a successful launch on Product Hunt and tweeted about the company but after a few weeks only one person had signed up, it wasn’t really worth the effort. Another conventional wisdom that Ramy read up on was that charging anything less than $20/month would not be viable for an Indie maker trying to make a living off their product. Ramy hung up the boots of Pageflows a few weeks later, he turned it to a free product and just forgot about it. He kept the backlink from his newsletter page pointing to the (now free) version of PageflowsThe  2 year comebackAfter sometime, Ramy was checking his Google Analytics and found an interesting nugget; people seemed to really engage with his video walkthroughs. In a true Indie Hacker fashion he pulled up a fake payment forum and found that a few people tried to go through it! Powered by this accidental discovery of a value proposition he went all in on video and started pimping up his library. The Pricing CrusadePricing is one of the most underexplored areas of product development. Product teams usually spend 10 hours or so per year thinking about pricing! That’s it! For Ramy though it was front and center for a few reasons:He needed a recurring source of incomeThe product use was sporadic at best. It doesn’t have the use frequency or stickiness of Netflix or IG, but people still found immense value in exploring new flows specially when they have a new project to undertakeThe minimum $20/month advice was stuck with himAfter a lot of experimenting, Ramy settled on a rather interesting model. He would charge people Quarterly and Yearly. You can’t pay for Pageflows on a monthly basis. That pricing structure did a few things:Counterintuitevly the quartarely payment structure felt less of a “commitment” than the monthly payment structure. That is because people had 3 whole months to “get value” from the product. They weren’t pressured by that 30 day intervalIt mimics usage behavior. It is rather unlikely that every month or every few weeks you are working on a new product and need UX inspiration. But it is quite logical to have one big product release every quarter or so. It had an impulsive nature to it. People can, again counterintuitively, were more willing to buy this product for 3 months, and give it a spin when they really needed it than commit to a monthly subscription. A quarterly subscription took away that “ohh this is extremely helpful, I ll come back to it when I really need it”EconomicsSource: Indie HackersPageflows costs just $300-$400/month to run and generates well above 90% net profit margin! Ramy 14 months ago was pulling in more than 5k/month alone from this product and is likely doing much better now! The Internet is a truly amazing space! But he is not done! He is currently working on a product I am extremely excited about called InboxFlows. InboxFlows is the PageFlows of Email Marketing 😉.Support Me on Product HuntIn spirit of Creating stuff, I just launched Biden Student Loan Forgiveness tracker on ProductHunt. If you enjoy this newsletter and are in a generous spirit, click here and give it an upvote. Thank you 👼See you next week 😉,Ali Abouelatta

SubscribeHello my friends,Sorry for going AWOL in the past two weeks, I have been moving and decided to take some time off to focus on me and my family. But on the plus side I had over two weeks to prepare for this issue and it’s by far the best one I have ever written. Before we jump into today’s topic ConvertKit I wanted to share some personal updates from First 1000.In January 2021 we had over 1000 new subscribers join our newsletter! For reference It took me 5 months to take my first 1000 subscribers. Thank you Thank you Thank you ♥️.We had over 17 people that referred 5 or more people to first 1000 and they all have gotten either $25 or $50 in Amazon Gift Cards…so I am extending this to February as wellIf you refer 5 people to First 1000 in February I will send you a $25 Amazon Gift Card….If you refer 10 people to First 1000 in February I will send you a $50 Amazon Gift CardGet Your Unique Referral LinkLet’s Jump into ConvertkitWhat is Convertkit?ConvertKit is an email marketing company for professional bloggers started by Nathan Barry in 2013. You can think of it as a more powerful MailChimp, built specifically for content creators (bloggers, podcasters, authors, etc). Convertkit is bootstrapped and is currently doing over $22m in annual recurring revenue.Convertkit is a public startup meaning all of its metrics are available for anyone to see here.How did ConvertKit get started?Convertkit can be put in the same bucket as Trello, Glossier, Huda Beauty, Product Hunt, Kylie Cosmetics, Mr Beast Burgers and so on. These are companies that all got their start from their founders building up an audience first then monetizing through a product later. In today's lingo these companies are often referred to as the "creator economy" and the next decade or so is going to see a huge boom in such companies for a simple reason: in the 90's we used to trust media corporations, and in the 2010s that trust started to erode and  we became evangelist of companies(Uber, Snapchat, Facebook) and now in the 2020s trust in companies is eroding and we are now in the phase where we trust individuals (you see it in the rise of Solo VCs, Business Influencers, Podcasts, Substacks..etc). And this is why the story of Convertkit could not be more valuable today and I am extremely excited about this issue.How did Nathan build his personal audience to launch Convertkit? First let’s talk about who Nathan is. Nathan is a designer turned indie maker turned founder. Back in 2012, he built a blog where he talked about the inner-workings of building iOS apps for himself and audience. He managed to build a modest list of 798 subscribers on Mailchimp in the process. He turned this blog  into a book called The App Design Handbook and sold over $12,000 in the first day of launch. From there he figured out his Indie-maker flywheelGreat Content -> Book Sales -> Word of mouth -> Bigger Audience -> More Book Sales.So in the next 4 months he wrote another book "Designing Web Applications" and to double the audience and made twice as much money. At this point he was making 20k/month just from book sales.From Books to Saas SoftwareBuilding in public (the entire process is documented in his blog)Books were great but Nathan wanted to build a more predictable sustainable business. So on his blog he create The Web App Challenge. The premise was to hit 5k/month in monthly recurring revenue in 6 months! But he gave himself some restrictions as described in his blog“I am starting without an idea. So I don’t know what the application will be, what it will do, or who it is targeted towards.”“I can only spend $5,000 of my own money in this entire process. Meaning all other funds necessary have to come from paying customers. Since I will be hiring out the development, getting paying customers right away is mandatory.”“I cannot spend more than 20 hours a week on this project. If allowed, I waste tons of time on projects. This limit is partially because there are other things that need my time (contract projects, writing, etc) and to help keep me focused.”How this public challenge turned into Convertkit?Throughout the process of finding an idea to take to $5k in monthly recurring revenue Nathan found himself fighting an uphill battle with Mailchimp. Every time he learned something new about best marketing practices he had to fight with Mailchimp to stitch something together (drip campaigns, following up sequences, adding value through guides..etc) and slowly that pain took over his Web App Challenge. It was enticing for several reasonsHe had a competitive advantage from the audience he has built. Distribution is king.He was his own customer, so knew the nuances of the problemHe had a unique insight into marketing software...its primary focus should be to add value first then ask for a sale second. That wasn't the way any of the existing marketing software were createdLosing interest in ConvertkitThe Web App project went relatively well, Nathan didn't quite hit his 5k/month goal but managed to get 2k/month in the 6 months timeframe. But a year later he was actually making 1.5k/month. His audience and the challenge he set has helped him get to 2k, but Nathan lost motivation, he dedicated less and less time to Convertkit and over the following 6 months his revenue declined further to 1.3k/month. At this point he had to make a choice ...shut it down or double down and put in the hours and money this project deservedGoing All InAfter two years of treating Convertkit as a side project Nathan decided to give it his best shot to making it work. That meant doing a few thingsShutting down his other projects (books) and focus full time on ConvertkitInvest over $50k in the product from his own personal money.Focus on direct sales: Content marketing doesn’t work nearly as well for a new product. Direct sales killed it.Find a niche: First he tried “email marketing for authors” (headed in the right direction, but ultimately a bad idea). Then he settled on “email marketing for professional bloggers.” Best decision ever.Concierge migrations: The biggest objection in the sales process for him has always been “but it’s so much work to switch!” So he did the ultimate thing that doesn’t scale and offered to switch them over from their old provider to ConvertKit. Totally for free. Yes, it cost him a ton of time and money, but the referrals and ongoing revenue gave it incredible ROI.Hire amazing full-time employees: Nathan's friend Danny Iny said that “If you pay for half of someone’s time you get a quarter of their attention.” Ever since then he has tried to hire full-time employees for critical roles. When he hires contractors he almost always does it with the expectation that if things go well, he’ll move them to full-time.The impact of doubling down:This new focus, dedication and investment changed the trajectory of Convertkit from this ⬇️to this ⬇️Zooming in: First 50, 500 and 1000 customersThis graph only tells a part of the story, things that usually work for one growth journey doesn’t work anymore once you need to hit bigger more ambitious numbers. So we dive a little bit deeper into how Nathan got his first 50, 500 and 1000 customers.First 50 customers: Content Marketing from the Web App ChallengeFirst 500 customers: Direct Sales and word of mouth (from doing things that don't scale as switching people manually to their product)First 1000+ customers: Affiliate programs. This worked really well since affiliate links came naturally to his niche audience:Bloggers. This is just a core part of how they make money and plugging in a product they actually used and loved and being able to make money out of that was a no brainer. Affiliate program was based on a forever ongoing 30% revenue share on each month a person you referred is using Convertkit.if a small business owner loves your product they might tell 2-3 friends. But if a blogger loves your product, they'll tell 20,000 readers! So we had a very natural distribution path built inThat is it! The story of Convertkit and how they got their first 1000 cusomter. Today Convertkit is doing $2.2m in revenue every month with $1.9m in net revenue…with no external money raised! What a beast of a company!Hope you enjoyed this issue as much as I did 😉 and don’t forget to refer your friends, family, significant other or literally anyone you know! There is a $25 Amazon Gift card waiting for youGet Your Referral LinkSee you next week ♥️,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

SubscribeHello All,Last week was crazy for referrals! I had a few bugs that got hammered out..thanks to everyone that reached out!Grab your $25 if you refer 5 friends in February(15 days to go!)Get $25Today we dive deep into Calendly. The basics:Elevator PitchCalendly is a scheduling platform that makes it really easy to schedule meetingsIn the 36 case studies we did so far, I think Calendly would win the prize for defying VC advice...and I couldn't be more excited to write this issue. Here is a summary of everything Calendly’s founder Tope did that would go against the advice you typically hear from YC, Andreessen, Benchmark..etcBased out of Atlanta Build a profitable business from the get-go! Only raised $550k for the first 9 years of the companyOutsourced the initial product to Ukraine. Tope, Calendly's founder, put in over $50k for a dev shop to create the MVP. He didn't write a single line of code.Spent the first six months doing market research, not building the productDid not interview a single customer before starting or launching the productWas obsessed about his competitors products, in fact he spent 3-4 months trying out every single scheduling app that existedStarted by a single non-technical black immigrant founderWho started Calendly?Calendly was founded by Tope Awotona, who graduated school at just 15 and went on to join the University of Georgia.Tope spent his 7 year working stint in sales. On the side he started 3 failed businesses: a dating company that never launched, an ecommerce website selling projectors and an ecommerce website selling grills. Tope as many of us, wanted to make money and it took him 3 runs to figure out that unless you care really deeply about the problem you are trying to solve...it just won't work."To scale a business and be successful, I couldn't just be mercenary. I truly needed to care about the problem and be motivated to solve it."How Calendly got started?Calendly founding story starts with Tope's previous failed attempts at starting a business, Tope decided to take a sabbatical from side-hustles and would only go for another run ifHe is not starting a business for the sake of starting a business.He could see himself quitting his daily sales job to pursue that project full-time.A year into his sabbatical, he was organizing a large meeting across 3 different companies and 10 people and the process of finding a time everyone agreed on was brutal. He took an afternoon to evaluate a few scheduling tools to see which one he can expense the company to make his life aa little bit easier. The more he looked, the more he realized how ample an opportunity was for modern scheduling software that was easy for the recipient to use.SubscribeReasons not to start Calendly:After being burned by his previous side hustles, Tope spent the next few months trying to invalidate why he shouldn't build another scheduling tool. But the more time he spent playing around with his potential competitors, the more conviction he gained. When it was finally time to pull the trigger, he went all in! All in as used every single last dollar to his name to pay a dev shop in Ukraine to develop V1 of the app. Validating the idea:Did not talk to customers! Tope spent his last 7 years selling enterprise software. So he liked to think he knew a thing or two about the pains of scheduling meetings...To his credit, he did!He spent his time learning what people loved about the 30 competitors on the market. Tope respected his competition and was humble enough to try to learn from their wins, and maybe he Zucked a feature or two along the way.His market validation was seeing many decent businesses built in the space that had horrible products. Fragmented market, with low NPS and many profitable SMBs.... isn't this the perfect startup recipe?First 10-> 1000->10,000 usersThe viral loop:The growth strategy for a product like Calendly screams product virality. The nature of sending out invites means that you share them every time you are using the product. But as is the case with any product lead growth, the product needs to be pretty differentiated for it to catch on. Calendly's product innovation came in 4 different flavors:The product experience was optimized for the recipient, not the sender! All previous scheduling software was optimized for their actual customers, the people who pay the bills! Calendly focused ruthlessly on the recipient, minimizing steps taken to schedule a meeting as much as possible.Consumer vs. Enterprise: that meant shaving off any feature people didn't love in the existing software, and just doubling down on features people loved in other software...and making it better.Integrations Integrations IntegrationsFlywheel in effectSo a funny story here, Calendly grew like 🔥 in the early days because it was free. This was not a conscious decision made by Tope. What happened was he ran out of money and couldn't pay his dev shop to build a billing software...so he had to launch for free for the first year before raising those $550k that would last him almost a decadeFirst 10 customers:His first 10 users were customer success agents at Bright Bytes. Bright Bytes is a data and analytics company in the education space that contracted the same dev shop as Calendly to develop a software product. Calendly came up in random check up a meeting between the dev shop and Bright Bytes exec team, and they do so happen to have the same problem Calendly was trying solving. So the dev shop agreed to give them early access (with Tope's consent) to test out the product and provide feedbackFirst 1000 customers:Bright Bytes customer success used Calendly to schedule calls with parents in K through 12. A few Parents (who were clients of Bright Bytes) then started to sign up to Calendly and use it for parent-teacher conferences. Schools started to take notice of Calendly and started to officially run all their parent-teacher conferences on Calendly. Other schools then started getting some real FOMO and signed up to see what all this hype was about. Within less than a year, tens of schools and thousands of schools in the Atlanta area ran all their external meetings on Calendly.From 1000 => 10,000 usersIt started with teacher-conferences and then product grew organically from there to a few thousand people. But Tope with his sales acumen, needed to know where to put fuel on the fire. So what happened next was pretty genius (and simple actually). He went after feature requests. By that I mean, every time someone asked for a feature, he would try to get on a call with the customer and understand how they use the product. People who request features from a company usually tend to be super users of the product. So Tope leveraged that fact to identify exactly who to go after, who were the people getting the most value out of his product and hit that domain with some old fashioned sales. After all thats what he did for a living for the previous decade or so!That's it for today, folks..but before your go you should know my friend Jawad Shriem just started a pretty 🔥 podcast called Thinking BackwardsThinking Backwards features actionable convos w/ super creators who will show you how to start and get things done! I listened to the episode with Wes Kao cofounder of AltMBA two times already!See you next week 😉,

Welcome,Good to be back with you all! This week we have a guest post by the brilliant George Vasiliadis Head of Growth of ViralLoops. The post was originally posted on his medium where you can check it out!🤓Don’t forget, for February if you refer 10 people to First 1000, you will get $50 Amazon gift card!🤓Grab your $50 if you refer 10 friends in February (11 days to go!)Get $25Now to the fun stuff! How Robinhood got 1 million people to sign up for their waitlist before ever launching a productSubscribeIt’s a tale as old as time.No, not that one.You get an idea for a revolutionary product or service.💡You launch the next big thing on your website. 💻You invite your family, friends — perhaps even your LinkedIn network — to download your app or buy from your store.Despite your efforts, your launch ends up being less “big thing” and more small potatoes.🙈Commission-free stock-trading app Robinhood managed to rewrite this classic narrative with an enviable and explosive go-to-market.In the year prior to launch, Robinhood built a waiting list amounting to nearly…one…million……users.That’s one million users before the company even existed.Sound nuts?-I’d say so.Gaining one million potential users during prelaunch is perhaps a lofty target for a small startup. But you can certainly expand your prelaunch reach — and your waiting list — by imitating some of Robinhood’s techniques.Just like Robinhood stole from the rich💰💰 and gave to the poor 🚫💰, we’re stealing/borrowing from Robinhood and giving to you.Compel Immediate ActionFOMO; Fear Of Missing Out.It’s a powerful force.So powerful, in fact, that simply making potential customers feellike they might be missing out on something can often move them to action.56 % of surveyed adults admit that FOMO impacts their media usagehabits, for example, compelling them to look at social media again and again.Marketers can harness FOMO by creating an impression of exclusivity through the use wait lists, limited supply, and time limits.And that’s exactly what Robinhood did.As a part of their pre-launch strategy, the Robinhood team invited potential app lovers to gain invitation-only, early access to its private beta.Instead of inviting potential Robinhood users to join a mailing list, the company appealed to its interested fans’ desire to be the first to benefit from what Robinhood had to offer.And this offer was so enticing, that it got the attention of Hacker News, which was “Every engineer’s dream in the Valley,” according to co-founder Vlad Tenev.Keep the Process SimpleSo how did Robinhood draw in the first eager-to-gain-early-access few?Robinhood kept the sign-up process short, sweet, and simple.When a person arrived on the early-access landing page, only one task stood between them and the chance to be the first to use the Robinhood app: entering their email address.Let’s face it: people aren’t that great at paying attention — not for long periods of time, anyway.In fact, our attention spans are only about 8 seconds. 🤔 That’s shorter than the attention span of a goldfish.The brainpower behind building Robinhood’s waiting list knew this fact and designed a sign-up page so straightforward that it could be completed before any person 😃 (or fish, for that matter 🐟) could lose interest.The page was simple to use. Not full of jargon or length copy, just one powerful hook — ”Robinhood $0 commission stock trading. Stop paying up to $10 per trade.”Giving users only one option; To opt-in.Get People to Share and Re-engageGaining access was simple.And like many other pre-launches, the first few sign-ups were acquired from family, friends, and as a result of press mentions.But how did Robinhood turn those first few to thousands, hundreds of thousands and then nearly a million?Gamification.People. Love. Playing. Games. 🎮 🎲 🎱 ⚽Especially when those games are tied to rewards they actually want.Robinhood created a referral-based viral loop that looked something like this:When users signed up for Robinhood, they were put on the waiting list. The higher on a person’s position on the list, the earlier the Robinhood fan received access to the beta.After entering an email address, the “thank you page” allowed individuals see is their position on the waiting list.Conveniently located under their waiting list placement? A reward-based invitation to share Robinhood’s exclusive offer with others in just one click. The more a person shared, the higher waiting-list position. The higher the position, the sooner one would gain access to Robinhood. And who doesn’t want to jump ahead in the queue?And that’s what led to exponential growth.Bonus: Embrace What Makes You DifferentAll of these tips and tricks got Robinhood part of the way. But people flocked to Robinhood because they saw something different. Meaningful. Useful.Robinhood wanted to makes things easier for people.And people love easy.When describing the function of Robinhood, co-founder Vladimir Tenev said they built it aiming to “[make] trading as frictionless as possible.”In the end, the app team built their waiting list using a similar tactic. By providing a frictionless portal for customer sign-up and giving potential customers lots of reasons to become actual customers, Robinhood moved beyond a humdrum launch and accomplished something truly spectacular.More fun stuff?You should subscribe to In Bed with SocialWhy should you subscribe?In the words of @wolfejosh“I’m “a voracious reader of others, vacuuming up all that I could find—especially from rare, off-the-beaten-path, or otherwise undiscovered sources. One common thing amongst the people I obsessively read about was that they had done the same”This last piece on Experiential Websites was just 🤯🤯See you next week 😉,Ali Abouelatta

Hello All,I think I got around 30 messages over the past couple of weeks on what my favorite newsletter is….the answer is VC Careers Newsletter.✨The 1 minute pitchHow do VC investors discover founders before they scale? Find out by joining the 19,000+ VCs (from top firms like Greylock, Bessemer, and CRV) and innovators on John Gannon's VC email list. Subscribe now.Join 19,000 smart folksToday our case study is on Udemy.The Cold Start Problem:Gagan spent the first six months of the company cold calling instructors and asking them to put courses on their platform. Udemy had no reputation or success stories of instructors making a living on their site. Because of that, none of the instructors Gagan called created courses for Udemy.Startup Digest University.Gagan took the matters to his own hands. His roommate was working on Startup Digest: A newsletter that had around 50-70k subscribers at the time. He piggy-backed off their name and launched Startup Digest University: an offline paid event where founders can come and learn more about the mechanics of launching a startup. But he still needed content, content that was not just another conference talk anyone can find on youtube. Where did Gagan go? He went to his investors. He outlined very clearly what he wanted talks to look like. He wanted content with concrete examples, data, and actionable insights. Because investors, the majority of them I hope, are deeply invested in your success, they agreed. Gagan categorized these recorded talks, launched them on Udemy to create his very first courses. He now had the supply side of the marketplace covered, and all he had to do was focus on getting customers to purchase these courses and use that as a case study to get more creators involved.Startup Digest University.Gagan had an easier time getting distribution to these courses than he did try to get course creators on board ( it didn't take him six months, that's for sure 😉). There are a few reasons for that:1- Social Capital / Credibility of the instructors(Udemy investors)2- Brand Recognition from Startup DigestAs you can imagine, Gagan utilized every distribution channel he had his hands (asked investors to promote it, shoutouts in Startup Digest, asked friends and acquaintances to promote it as well).Getting (actual) course creators on boardWith the case study in hand, Gagan created a 3 step funnel to find potential instructors and convince them to create courses on Udemy:Finding The Leads: Gagan needed a huge amount of leads. He accomplished by outsourcing the lead gen process for $3 an hour to data miners in the Philippines using Odesk. In the past, Udemy used college interns but switched to outsourcing to increase efficiency. Udemy had 5 to 10 outsources working on lead gen at any given time.What did the outsources do? The lead gen teamed searched “learn python,” “what is python,” and any other search term related to a learning python (or any other topic Udemy wanted a course on). When the data miners found a relevant site, they’d copy/paste the web page author’s email. This amounted to 100’s of emails a day that the outsourcers would put in a Google doc.Getting The Leads To Talk To Them Once they had the emails, the data miners would email, one by one, each address. Gagan didn’t used Mailchimp or any other mass email service because it looked sketchy. The outsources sent a a variety of emails Gagan wrote beforehand and tracked which emails received a response. After 500 emails or so, the team would switch to the winning email. Closing The Lead At this point, the data miners successfully had hundreds of instructors signed up for Udemy. But there was still a problem: the instructors rarely finish and launched their courses.So Gagan got creative.Udemy emailed any instructor who didn’t finish creating their course and said “Hey, we wanna run a promotion for your course in 3 weeks…can you get it down by then?”This email increased convinced instructors to finish creating their course in a few weeks. It also increased the conversion to get people to create a course in the first part.That’s it for today, See you next week 😉

🤔 The 1 minute SummaryCompany: InstagramFirst 1000 Strategy:💬 Big LaunchCreating a hyped launchMany try and fail to do this, simply because they don’t have the network. Instagram launch day was big. They got @Jack(investor) to tweet about it to his 1m followers along with a dozen of other design influencers(example 1, example 2). IG didn’t just rely on influencers, but also got themselves covered in TechCrunch, Wired plus many other publications. To get featured Kevin gave reporters early access to the app, when only a handful of web designers had their hands on it during testing! Exclusivity == Value. A consequence of the PR + Influencer launch was that they also got featured on the app store. This is not crazy considering the fact that Apple 🖤 design-first companies…they went from <12 users to 25,000 in 24 hours! Media is extremely powerful….🤤 Full Story30-second History LessonKevin, ex-intern @ Twitter and PMM @ Google (after the company he worked for got acquired by Google in his first year), started Burbn (the precursor) to Instagram to help people discover whiskey places. He raised $500k for the idea after running into investors from Baseline(Steve Anderson) at a party and showing them the app. @Jack also participated in the round, lending his support to his previous intern.The PivotThere was contingency on the money they raised. Steve Anderson would not do the deal until Kevin found a cofounder. This was when Mike came to the picture; he was an old friend of Kevin that also liked to tinker with projects on the weekends, one meeting in....and he was on board (talk about life-changing decisions)But soon after, it was obvious to Kevin and Mike that Burbn was just 👏not👏that👏interesting👏to👏people. They only managed to take it to a hundred users a few months after raising those $500k (they were at 80 users before raising any money). To focus their efforts, they did something so simple yet so powerful...they asked the handful of users they had Why do you still use Burbn? I just want to take a minute to uncover why this is such a powerful question. For starters, it helps you re-discover your value proposition, what is it that people appreciate about your product. Secondly, it helps your team to identify the best ROI of their time. If you were to ask them something like how could you make the product better or what features they want....you would get pulled into 200 different directions; that is not something you can afford in the early days. Building Instagram1 - FocusThe original premise of Burbn was on Location sharing, which was hot hot hot at the time. But from the handful of users they had, they found that they were primarily using Burbn to share photos of mundane things. So they had some initial direction2- Study CompetitionKevin and Mike studied every competitor on the market to find how they can build a competitive product (Path was all the rave back then 🤣). And they decided to focus relentlessly on minimizing the number of clicks to post a photo (spoiler alert: that wasn't enough)3- ExperimentationBefore Instagram, the duo developed a prototype named Scotch. It had a similar premise to Instagram...but without the filter (and the UI was a bit wack).4- Do Something SpecialPhoto sharing in itself wasn't something special; what was special and unique at the time was the amount of processing power one could do on the iPhone 4. Taking a beautiful panorama and turning it into a cool 1980 polaroid is not just something you could do on any of the existing "old-school" photo-sharing app. The funny thing about filters, though, it did not come out of user research or any unique insights the founders had. Instead, Kevin (after being burned out by the failure of Burbn) was taking some time off with his girlfriend, and after showcasing the new IG prototype, she said she wouldn't post any pictures though because her photos weren't as good as a Kevin's friend Greg(he used a separate filter app to make his photos look nice). So Kevin, upon returning to work, added filters to the Instagram prototype.Teardown: Getting 25k Customers on launch day💡 PrelaunchMike and Kevin only had 100 Testflight Beta Invites to give out before launch, and so they treated them very specially. So they focused their initial target on two main categories1- Journalists....so they write about them when the app launches2- Dribble.com, Top designers from Dribble meant that the quality of the content that seeded the app would be out of this world. This fueled the "wow" factor of Instagram. It is worth mentioning that they didn't go with photographers because they were just a much more demanding segment. 🚀 LaunchKevin and Mike got @Jack(ex-boss + investor) to tweet about it to his 1m followers and a dozen other design influencers(example 1, example 2). IG didn't just rely on influencers but also got themselves covered in TechCrunch, Wired, plus many other publications(thanks to some of those beta invites they set aside to reporters.  Exclusivity == Value.A consequence of the PR + Influencer launch was that they also got featured on the app store. This is not crazy because Apple 🖤 design-first companies… went from <100 users to 25,000 in 24 hours! Media is extremely powerful.And that's how Instagram got their first 25,000 customers. I also just wanted to say thank you ♥️ to Joe Amdal, Juraj Pal, Ben Belmont, Areeb Mianoor, Ahmed Fawzy and Marrie Dolle for sharing last week's issue! It means the world to meShare First 1000See you next Sunday😉,Ali AbouelattaI would love to chat and learn how I can improve the newsletter in the future. Book a Zoom meeting with me here.

Company: UberFirst 1000 Strategy:💬 Word of mouthFinding customers exactly when they need the product (i.e when they’re suffering)Word of mouth is usually used as a catch-all-term for organic reach. Just like network effects, word of mouth can power exponential growth to your company (more people use it, more people talk about it, more likely you are to try out the app). But people only talk about your company, when your product hits a certain “wow factor.” The deeper the pain the user experience, the lower the threshold for them to be “wowed”  Uber understood that, so when Travis went out to get his first customers, he wanted to hit people at exactly the moment they experience that pain of getting a cab. He launched a street team that camped outside crowded events like south by south west, crowded train stations at peak hours, local tech events. The street team gave out free rides to everyone (then they moved to discounted rides).Wow factorsPress a button to get a cab in 5 minutes when you are at an event and its impossible to hail a taxi and its for free btwAny normal Reaction => WOW I FUCKING LOVE THIS….(and then you tell your friends). This is very different than if the first time you used the product was on a perfect Sunday at 2pm where there was a line of cabs waiting outside the mall to pick up customers and you decided to give Uber a try, had to wait 5 minutes for the car to arrive and pay X2 as much as you would. See you next Sunday 😉,Ali AbouelattaP.S: What do u think of the new format? Do you prefer long stories or short (<200 words) ones? Hit reply and let me know (Nothing I love more than incorporating your feedback into the newsletter.)

SubscribeHello Folks,This week, we are doing a deep dive about how Shopify got their first 1000 customers. A lot of you have reached out to me asking to cover more B2B, Fintech, Live Audio, Productivity, No Code and Enterprise companies. I can only do one at a time unfortunately :/ so bear with me please 🙅. Also THANK YOU for spreading the love <3, we have over 1000 new members SINCE WEDNESDAY!!! THIS IS CRAZY 🤯.Founding Story:Tobias Lütke moved to Canada in 2002 to be with his girlfriend during her Masters's Degree in Ottawa. But the ways immigration laws worked in Canada meant that Tobi could not get a job until he got his permanent residency (which takes a while), but it was perfectly legal to start a business. So he figured Snowboarding + Canada + The Internet sounded like a winning strategy in life...I can't get a job anyways. what could ever go wrong?And so Snow Devil was born!SubscribeFirst 400 CustomersShopify is one of those companies that didn't just start by accident, but they also got their first 400 customers entirely by accident. What happened was as Tobi was trying to set up Snow Devil with Yahoo Stores. Still, Yahoo Stores at the time was primarily built for companies with large scale and budgets; there was no easy way to manage your inventory, accepting payments...you had to do that on your own, companies that used Yahoo Stores were already at a scale that they would spend 30-40k/month just managing different aspects of the website (such as Supply Chain, Payment Provider..etc., etc.). Tobi didn't have that kind of cash to hire a team to set up and Maintain Snowdevil, he tried out a few other providers such as Miva, OsCommerce but it didn't do it for him.Around the same time, this dude we now know as DHH, who was creating a new framework  “Ruby on Rails” on top of the Japanese programming language “Ruby”, and if you know developers, you know how much seriously they take their open-source projects. Now Ruby on Rails was exciting at the time in the developer community because one of the philosophies of creating the language was "Do Not Repeat Yourself." The architecture promised orders of magnitude less code to manage a full-stack application. What they needed was to prove though was the "commercial viability" of the framework. People can use Ruby on Rails to build complex real-life applications that are way faster and way less complicated to code than using other languages.So Ruby on Rails had this excellent feature on the sidebar "Real-life apps" (see above) that showcased some of the applications that the community built using the language. Tobi figured that building Snowdevil on this exciting new framework would be way less headache than forcing Yahoo Stores to do the things he wanted. Maybe, even though he would never admit it, Tobi just missed his programming job a tiny bit and used Ruby on Rails as an excuse to get back to writing some code (we will never know 🤷‍♂️). Anyhow, so as Tobi was building SnowDevil on top of Ruby on Rails, he got to see the team of developers building Ruby on Rails, started providing some feedback, and because it was open-source, even started contributing the language. A few months in, he became one of the core contributors to the framework (I told you he missed programming). To be fair, though, all the core contributors were also working on their projects on top of Ruby on Rails; it was just a fascinating time. Everyone was fascinated with this new framework...it was like he Notion for developers back in 2005. So Tobi as a core contributor to the community put Snowdevil there on the Ruby on Rails Community website as one of the "Real-life apps" built. People like it and a handful of them asked if he could help them make something similar or if they could outright license the code from him. At first, he would help but then, as the Ruby on Rails community grew, so did the requests. So he put a forum on the website where people who wanted to get his code template could sign up so he wouldn't be inundated with requests.He moved on to continue selling Snowboards and had a pretty profitable first year. But Snowboarding is a seasonal business, so as the summer kicked in, Tobi went back to figure out wtf to do with those 400 people from the Ruby on Rails Community that wanted to license their Software...he didn't build Snowdevil in a way that we could fork (i.e., copy) the code and hand it off to another developer.Designers were the next target.Unsurprisingly, Tobi was more excited about the opportunity of the software business he stumbled upon than he was about SnowDevil (FYI, they sold out of EVERYTHING in May...SnowDevil was working). Anyway, Tobi reached out to a friend of his girlfriend " Daniel Weinand" to help him design some of the platform templates that we now know as Shopify. Daniel started recruiting some other designer friends to build templates for Shopify. Shopify, in return, prominently offered those designers a space on their website, recognizing their efforts and putting them in touch with potential clients. People are selfish creatures, they like when their name is on the website, so Shopify slowly started making its way into Weinand's friends' extended circle of designers. Shopify embraced designers as well. They ran Theme competitions every month and would do a remarkably lengthy profile on whoever created the best theme that month. Featured designers would share those profiles; they got more designers onboard...etc..etc.SubscribeBumps along the way.Another year would go by (2007), and Shopify would not hit its 1000 customer mark. Shopify was growing so slowly because of their freemium model. Shopify worked at the beginning because everything was free, and they only took a 3% cut (on top of Paypal's fees at the time) for every item sold. So successful businesses doing 7-8 figures in revenue did not want to use the platform; they figured they could use that same money to build their custom website, and many smaller websites created would not sell anything. When Tobi switched their business model from free to a small subscription ($25-$75), things started to go bonkers.How did things go, Bonkers?Shopify, from its inception, was built with a template engine. Still, to go beyond their designer and ruby on rails community, they wanted Shopify to be synonymous with creating an online store. So Tobi and the team asked the question...what do people do before and during starting an online store. The list goes something as follows:1 - They search for a name generator for their business2- The look for a logo maker3- They try to come up with a slogan and then search for Slogan online4- They look for Stock images to use5- They discover they need an image resizer6- They would probably look for templates for things like a pay stub or gift certificate.So Shopify would spin up a mini-tool with a branded footer trying to accomplish each of those tasks for free. The idea was every step of the way when you are trying to start an online business, you would "stumble" upon Shopify's logo in the footer, and just subconsciously, your brain starts making that association "SHOPIFY == CREATING AN ONLINE STORE." Needless to say...the strategy worked :)And thats it, folks...this is everything Shopify did to get their first 1000 customers.See you on Sunday 😉,Subscribe

SubscribeToday’s case study is a little bit different. We usually cover big (and small) tech companies and their journey to 1000 customers. To change things up a little bit I have invited Ria Golovakova a PR and communication specialist at Dapi (YC W20) to write this story of Daily Math… one of the largest instagram math page (over 100k+ followers.)🤷🏼‍♀️ What do they do?Daily Math (daily_math_) is an educational Instagram page posting math problems and math related content. In less than 2 years the page has grown to 109k followers with an active userbase eagerly waiting for each post.The creator behind the page, Hamza Alsamraee, has published two math books:Advanced Calculus Explored: With Applications in Physics, Chemistry, and BeyondParadoxes: Guiding Forces in Mathematical ExplorationHis first book sold more than 4000 copies in the first year, which put it as the #1 Amazon bestseller in the categories of Solid-State Physics and Teen & Young Adult Physics eBooks.These accomplishments would be remarkable for an esteemed professor, but Hamza is 17 years old and only recently graduated high school! So, how did he do it?🍎 A Problem a Day Keeps the Doctor AwayInitially, Hamza started the page for two reasons:Connect with fellow math enthusiasts, as his high school did not have a math club.Test the market for his first book.He began by posting one math problem a day. His first two posts were photos of a handwritten problem and solution, after which he switched to typesetting the problems on his computer. These posts did not have any pictures, they were simple slideshows of a problem and the steps in a solution.Hamza prioritized living up to the name of his page, posting a problem every single day.🔽 Niching DownEven though the math community is already a niche of Instagram, Hamza knew he had to niche down even more.To grow a presence on social media, he thought, he needed to start with a very well-defined audience and deliver upon a simple premise time and time again.Hamza's first posts were only integration problems, a small subset of calculus which, in turn, is a small subset of math.He tried to post the most interesting integrals and solve them in the most simple way he could. This way, he hoped his followers would feel like they've solved the problem themselves.⛏️ Grinding OutreachOnce Hamza's page hit 100 followers, he began actively marketing the page. He went to similar math pages, asking them for shoutouts and directly messaging their followers. This process took him multiple hours every day, but that wasn't even the main problem.Instagram's algorithm makes outreach very difficult for pages with few followers. Hamza had to limit the amount of users he reached out to, so that the platform wouldn't flag him as a bot and ban his account.He messaged about 10 people in the morning, 10 during the day while walking, and 10 before going to sleep. But even with these limited numbers he once got banned from posting for a week.He began promoting daily_math_ from another Instagram account that he had, a meme page with a slightly larger number of followers.🧚 A Sprinkle of LuckActive outreach efforts got some results, but growth was still painfully slow.Daily Math's big break came when another math page happened to come across the account and shout it out to their followers.Hamza got a few hundred followers within days thanks to that bit of luck.🤝 Building a CommunityBeyond posting good content and actively reaching out, Hamza's secret sauce was building a community. The goal of his page was to stand out from other math content online. Hamza did not want to lecture people. Instead, he tried to make them feel as if they were on a journey with him, solving the problems together.To help people feel involved, he responded to every message and every comment the page got. Then he actively encouraged people to like, comment, and share his posts with others.Even further, he made it clear that he was a real person behind the content. He would share updates from his life and post stories with his face on them.This was critical to Daily Math's early success: when a social media account doesn't have a face attached to it, it doesn't feel credible. With his personality as part of the brand, Daily Math became an avenue for Hamza to share his love for math with the world.Subscribe🤝 What the First 1000 community is working on?1-800-D2C:  a fun yellow-page themed directory of D2C brands & the tools they use. Topknot: Approachable, accessible coaching and community for every woman -- build the life you want with Topknot.Gecko – A marketplace to hire event items easily & securely. We make it super easy for people to hire speakers, lights and chairs for their parties from people nearbyRefer 5 friends & get featuredThank you for tuning in this week ❤️,RiaSubscribe

SubscribeHello folks 👋,First of all, I would like to welcome the 545 new members to our little family 👨🏽‍🍼. We officially crossed 12,000 members and the only thing I can say is thank you ❤️. You guys are the best thing that ever happened to me!Today’s case study is on Stripe. I am not sure about you, but I have yet to meet someone who doesn’t like Stripe. And it is a little bizarre, sure they build a great product and all, but when a company hits that scale when a company is worth $90b+ …there gotta be a hater or two out there 🧐. Stripe is not just a Silicon Valley darling, it’s a media darling, a developer darling, a creator darling….it’s the Oprah of tech companies….and who on earth doesn’t like Oprah?So I went on a quest this week to uncover the Stripe story, how they got started, how they got their early customers and how the heck did they build such fanfare in an excruciatingly dull industry 🤷‍♂️. The only thing more boring than payment gateways is doing your taxes….and I don’t see anybody raving about Turbotax (even though its free free free free freeeee).Patrick and John were a little bit busy this week to talk to yours truly…so I had to do some digging…..a lot of digging 😰. Let’s jump into the fun stuff 😻.SubscribeLet’s start from the very very beginning The reigning champ…the notorious geek…the one…the only….*deep voice* PATRICK..🥁🥁..COLLISOOOOOOONIn 2005, sixteen-year old Patrick Collison (Patrick is the cofounder of Stripe) did what many high school nerds do and participated in the Young Scientist Of The Year competition. Unlike in other parts of the world, where people build volcanos and stuff, this competition was the shit in Ireland….like a lot of notable tech breakthroughs came out of there. Okai..so why is that important 🤷‍♂️?Patrick won the competition, but in retrospect for someone who built a $95b+ company in his twenties (and early thirties now 👴🏼)…that should come as no surprise. The important bit was that during this competition, Patrick first encountered the programming language Common Lisp, and one of the biggest Lisp fans on this planet is Paul Graham.Throughout his time in the competition, Patrick spent a lot of time contributing to Lisp.  As a young teen, he leveraged it to build his app “Isaac” (his entry to the competition). Isaac is what we would call today a chatbot….in 2005 chat bots weren’t a thing….and building one with some basic machine learning running in the background was enough to grant him the winning Prize.Patrick moves to the US to attend MIT (2007)Not what Patrick was doing at MITAfter winning the competition, Patrick was admitted to MIT at 17, 1.5 years before finishing high school 🙀 (talk about being smart). His brother John, who is 2 years younger, was at something called “activation year.” Activation year is an Irish concept where students take a year off between middle and high school to explore…well life. Students are expected to get some work experience, or travel or contribute to society in some shape or form…because there is more to life than just your grades (as a student…I approve this message🧑🏽‍⚖️).Moving back to IrelandIn his “activation year,” John started tinkering around with the idea of creating a better eBay. The idea was to create a mix of Wikipedia + eBay. Patrick being a good brother, decided to lend him a hand. After the first quarter of his freshman year at MIT, Patrick gained so much conviction in this project that he moved back to 🇮🇪🇮🇪 to be with his little bro and continue working on the project full time and dropped from MIT (technically, he took a leave of absence)Getting into YC and moving to Silicon ValleyEven though Patrick was 17 and John was only 15, they got accepted into the fourth ever batch of YC (W07). The only reason Patrick and John, two teenagers from rural Ireland knew anything about YC was because of Patrick’s involvement with Lisp during his science competition the year prior.  Their app “Shuppa” ended up merging with another YC company as soon as they joined. The combined company was named Auctomatic, and the brothers got back to working hard.Auctomatic and becoming teen millionaires (March 2008)Side note: Doge to the moon BABY!The ambition for Auctomatic was to build the next eBay. Still, they started off with tools that help individual sellers on sites as eBay, Amazon, Overstock and others manage their listings. In 2008 eBay was all the rave and within a few months of launching, the Auctomatic team got their first acquisition offer. They were young and naive and thought they “had a much larger vision,” so they didn’t entertain it, but over the next 3 months, they got 4-5 more offers and the teens caved in (I guess everyone has a price). They sold the company 11 months in for $5m 🤑. According to media Gossip from 2008, each of the Collison brothers netted around $1.2m from that deal and overnight became self-made teen millionaires.The return to normalIn case you weren’t already feeling bad about yourself (I know I was), let me remind you that John Collison, became a millionaire at 15 during his gap year and went back to Ireland to *start* his high school.Patrick, on the other hand, moved to 🇨🇦🇨🇦🇨🇦  to work as the Director of Engineering at “Live Current Media” the public company that acquired Auctomatic. Patrick spent a year in Canada (maybe that was a part of the deal…maybe not…we will never know 🥴). After the year ended, Patrick decided to re-enroll at MIT and officially start his second year. Since he joined university 1.5 years younger than everyone else…he figured he wasn’t in real a rush to graduate.Stripe…the first lines of code (October 2009)So at the age of 19, after going to MIT, then back to Ireland, then to SF, then to Canada and finally back to MIT (gotta respect the hustle), Patrick started working on the first version of Stripe. To be fair though, he was working on SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS at that time. After going through the rollercoaster of founding and selling a company in less than a year and encountering sort of normalcy of being a student, the guy just had to tinker away….I guess MIT was too boring for him. Patrick was working on hacking an offline version of Wikipedia for the iPhone (before Apple allowed apps on the app store) + a better web framework for Common Lisp. During that time, Patrick became obsessed with Slicehost. Slicehost…is hmm…something like AWS…before AWS existed. I mean, AWS was technically available in 2009, but it was nowhere near as user-friendly as it was today. Slicehost allowed developers to set up hosting using a beautiful GUI (at least according to 2009 standards). Patrick used Slicehost for all of his side projects and the guy was absolutely starstruck with it. There wasn’t an “aha” moment for Stripe. Sure creating merchant accounts was hard and archaic at the time…but monetizing side projects wasn’t top of mind for the teen millionaires. It was just this fascination with the new phenomenon of building an abstraction layer around something so boring and complicated- as was the case with Slicehost- ….and turning it into something that is intuitive and easy to use that excited Patrick. He figured he could replicate the Slicehost model for payments.Hacking away at Buenos Aires - Winter Break (Jan 2010)In a parallel universe, John completed his high school back in Ireland and received the highest score ever in the country's history. It should come as no surprise that John got admitted into Harvard, and so the duo were both in the US doing boring school stuff and primed for round 2 of building a company together🥂.*Fake* Patrick hacking away at Buenos Aires.Leading up to the Winter break, the Collison brothers applied and got into YC (again) and officially received their funding of 20k-30k by January 2010. Instead of going through the program…they decided they wanted to "hack at it" away from all distractions in the beautiful city of Buenos Aires @ Argentina.Getting their first userJohn hits deploy shortly before Stripe handles its first production paymentBear in mind, Patrick and John, despite their very young success, still had no freakin clue how the financial industry worked…what they knew was how to code.So what they did was … lie (is it lying if no one asks, though ? ). There was no “financial infrastructure” in any way for the first two years of Stripe. Patrick had a friend working at a payments gateway company…the company’s API was pretty horrific to set up and deal with. So Patrick and John created a set of APIs that were a lot easier to use; he abstracted the whole thing to 7 lines of code that any developer could copy-paste in under 1 minute.On the backend, when someone signed up to Stripe, Patrick called up his buddy, gave him the details and his buddy set up a merchant account for that user. Stripe just turned those 🤮 APIs …into something a bit more comprehensible and faster to implement. It wasn’t a payments company or anything at the time.The first customer of Stripe was a friend of Patrick and John from the early YC days, “Ross Boucher.” Ross was the founder of a Web software development company named 280 North. He also became the first employee at Stripe. In my book, it’s a pretty darn good signal when your first customer leaves their company to  join yours after only trying the beta version of your half-baked product.Fun facts:The Powerful analytics screenshot…was actually from plane-related mailing list that Patrick subscribed to…it had nothing to do with Stripe.Their pricing page was “We’re finalizing our pricing right now, we’ll be competitive.”The company at the time was named /dev/payments. There is a whole thread about how they came up with the name Stripe..you should check it out 😁Getting the first 20 user.The subsequent 20 users followed suit...all were other YC companies. There are many arguments about whether you should recruit your first users out of people you know (and risk getting sugar-coated feedback) or recruit people you don’t know (who are just a lot harder to find.) Not only did Stripe lean into people they knew….they were also extremely aggressive about it. As Paul Graham outlined in his essay Do Things that Don’t Scale“At YC we use the term "Collison installation" for the technique they invented. More diffident founders ask "Will you try our beta?" and if the answer is yes, they say "Great, we'll send you a link." But the Collison brothers weren't going to wait. When anyone agreed to try Stripe they'd say "Right then, give me your laptop" and set them up on the spot.” - Paul Graham Pricing as a forcing function.

Feedback is crucial in the early days of any company, especially a company attempting to solve such a complex problem like the one Stripe was after. The right feedback could make your business but the wrong one could detrimental to the company. Getting candid feedback is tough when all your Beta users are your friends and colleagues.

Patrick and John decided to price Stripe during Beta at the most expensive end of the spectrum 5% +$0.5 when all their competitors were charging 2.9%-3.2% + $0.3. This expensive pricing structure ensured 2 things:

 - People who signed up to Stripe and were willing to bear the expensive cost were not incentivized by money. Money creates all sorts of conflicts and may very well attract the wrong customers. You don't want to be building for the wrong audience ever...but especially not in the early days and not in an industry where product decisions are almost irreversible.

 - It also forced the team to build a great product. The more you charge for your product, the higher the customers' expectations are. Having that pressure from customers asking every day if their offering was truly worth almost X2 what the competitors charge, ensured that the only way to keep their customers around was to build a product that was at least twice as good as anything out there (and that was not an easy task considering Paypal was one of their main competitors)The next 50-100 customers. Despite their initial success and raising some money from YC…both John and Patrick went back to school to finish off their sophomore and freshman year, respectively. They looked at Stripe as a side project and it wasn’t until six months after they acquired their first customer that they had enough conviction to pursue this full-time and drop out (yet again).The realization according to Patrick was something along those lines.. “ (we realized that) the economic foundation of the web was really shaky and despite Paypal’s best attempt…they never really got there. The internet is still very young.....still a small fraction of transactions happen online. It’s crazy how manual it is...it’s incredibly hard to transact across borders…. if you are an American you can only buy from American companies and so is the case regardless of where you live. There should be robust reliable economic layer of the internet...and we really felt like we could solve that” As the summer started reigning in and the Collison brothers took Stripe more seriously, they did a few things to begin acquiring customers outside the YC circle.The first thing they did (they didn’t do that but rather Garry Tan, who was a YC partner at the time) was to launch a request for the team on HackerNews. By my very unscientific method, this post landed them between 300 and 550 signups on the waitlist. (Stripe had to implement a waitlist because… they had to do all the account creation stuff manually)Swag-on: Every time someone made their first transaction on Stripe, they sent them a Stripe swag kit. (It helped that they had the addresses of everyone signing up handy)Employees: This was not something the brothers planned on. The duo was extremely young (19 & 17) when they founded the company, so every new hire needed to take on a lot of responsibility. Naturally, they leaned into hiring founders. Out of the first 10 employees, 8 of them were founders. If there is one thing you can bet on….it’s that founders know other founders (period)I want to take a moment to say that sending Swag and writing a post on HackerNews is not the almighty-secret-recipe to success ( I am sure you already knew that 🥶). The primary reason it worked for Stripe is that, counterintuitively, selling a payment gateway is much easier than selling the majority of other products (many of which you may be working on). There are a few reasons for that:

- People know that payments is something they have to deal with; it's not a maybe question; it's a "which one" question. Payments is fundamental to every business.

- People associated payments with pain. "Payments for developers that doesn't suck" became the new mantra (As a refresher…when Stripe first started, they were aspiring to be the “Slicehost for payments,” but that messaging didn’t quite stick)

There are a minuscule number of infrastructure products that you need to use regardless of the product you are working on and where the only real alternatives are cumbersome 1997 legacy companies. If you are lucky enough to be working on one of those, then you don’t have to find people that need your product …cuz everyone kinda does (which is 90% of the work). You only need to prove you are better than what's out there. 

In that case, shooting your shot at someone coming across your brand name via a blog post or some swag they saw a random dude wearing at a Hackathon may be your best approach.
But if you are working on a consumer product, you may want to do the exact opposite…and narrow down on tiny concentrated circles of users and acquire the most significant portion of those as you possibly can (see the case studies on Udemy, Slice or Snackpass)Raising money and actually building the product.By the end of the summer, Stripe accumulated around 1000 signups to their waitlist. It's not clear how many of those were in the beta, given that Stripe had no financial infrastructure. If I am to bet my life on it, I would say something like 50-150 users. After the summer of '09 concluded, John and Patrick decided to go full time on Stripe. They raised $2m from whose who in the tech circles… that includes A16z, Sequoia, Elon Musk, and Peter Thiel. Patrick attributed much of their ability to raise this money to Paul Graham, who facilitated many of these intros and was a grand champion of the company. Over the following 14 months, the team laid low and went full-on building mode. They got the appropriate partnerships in place, dealt with regulatory requirements ..etc..etcOn September 29th, 2011….Stripe finally launched to the public.Stripe @stripeWe're really proud and excited to announce that https://stripe.com is now open to the public.7:24 PM ∙ Sep 29, 2011129Likes166Retweets Getting Customers Post Launch In the post-launch era, Patrick and the team started pouring more energy into acquisition:Every month they hosted a Capture The Flag contest (think of it as Minecraft for engineers) at their offices. According to the one friend I talked to that attended one of those…he loved it! Free pizza and drinks were flowing…(and who doesn’t like free food).As the team grew and more people started attending those events, the group began doing meet-ups. If John or Patrick were in another state for one reason or another, they would put together a meet-up event for developers and hackers. In the beginning, these were Capture the Flag competitions, but over time morphed into a more general meet & greet kind of events.As the interest in Capture The Flag competitions grew further. They started hosting them online….thousands and thousands of developers tuned in to solve these challenges every month.Within six months, they started running ads on StackOverflow. For the first year, that was the only channel they used for paid marketing. They also really really leaned into the narrative of “Paypal founders backing the next payment internet company.” See here and hereThe last bit was reviews from internet bloggers. For the most part, those were unsolicited (example, example2) but were a cornerstone to how they acquired customers post-launch, according to a random 2012 interview with Patrick I stumbled upon. I would hate it if the key takeaway here was to host competitions or god-forbid gamify your app. Personally I am an adversary of gamification but that is a story for another day 🙈. 

The biggest insight from Stripe's approach, for me at least, has been how they layered in their marketing effort. In most places I have worked in the past, marketing is a one and done exercise. You come up with an idea, put some $$ behind it, measure your performance and then put some more $$$$ behind it (maybe experiment with a few messages along the same theme).
 
What Stripe did was that they evolved their marketing, adding in more value and complexity as they grew, just as any good product person would do to their core product. Of course, this was possible because their marketing- in the form of these Capture The Flag competitions- was something valuable to the users. 

But this is not unique to Stripe. Many companies, especially those in the financial industry, build tools, calculators, or even content as a core part of their marketing. More often than not, those are treated in a "let's see what sticks" manner. They are not nurtured and handled with the same user empathy, and thoughtfulness one would provide their core product. This is what I believe Stripe did differently, and the results do kind of speak for themselves 😁.Behind the scenesAs many of you may already know, I love crowdsourcing my next issues😁.I want to write about stuff that are both interesting and would add some value to y’all…So for next week…Should I cover Fubu (Daymond John from Shark Tank), Copy.ai or Skillshare?(the poll is not showing in preview but you can see it if you click on the tweet 🥴)…P.S: if one of y’all is a PM at Twitter pls fix this.Ali Abouelatta @abouelatta_aliWhat company should I cover next on First1000?5:14 AM ∙ Apr 25, 2021This is it for today, See you next Sunday 😉,Ali AbouelattaShare

Hello Folks 👋,I know a lot of ink has been spilled over Twitter's founding but what I discovered throughout this research was that the origin of Twitter dates back to the year 2000.At that time, Jack Dorsey started getting into a personalized blogging website Live Journal. Live Journal was (and still is) a platform for people to follow their favorite bloggers and get a customized feed based on the social graph of bloggers you follow. Jack loved it and wanted to create a similar feed but for status updates. The idea was to see an archive of someone's status updates on Instant Messaging in hopes it could translate to more lifetime interactions (if I see a group of your friends on the feed updated their status to visiting a particular location/ festival, I could call them and meet up..etc.)To bring his idea into reality, Jack wrote a script to forward emails sent from his email to an email list of his closest friends and family (revolutionary, I know 😬). Shortly after writing the software, Jack went to the Golden Gate Park to test it and typed out a status update email that he was @ Golden Gate Park watching Bisons if any of his friends or family cared to join. No one showed up or replied...but the idea for Twitter was well planted.Six years pass by, and Jack finds himself working as a software developer at Odeo, a podcasting company started by Noah Glass and Evan Williams. Noah and Evan had previously sold Blogger to Google. Jack was in an interesting situation at Odeo; no one at the company was a consumer of the tool, podcasting was not a life passion for any of the cofounders, and the company wasn't taking off as they hoped it gave. A room for groups within the company to come up and work on new ideas rose, and Jack capitalized on that to bring his IM status archive to life.jack⚡️ @jackinviting coworkers9:02 PM ∙ Mar 21, 20067,215Likes5,590RetweetsThe timing worked; the rise of popularity of cross-platform SMS service between different mobile carriers. Together with Biz Stone and a freelance software developer in Hamburg, Germany, they could knock out V0.1 of Twttr in 2 weeks.Acquiring customersThe Twitter product was by no measure an instant success. It took 3 months for the service to get their first 1000 customers, followed by another 3 months of slowing growth after their initial spike. It was not until 6 months of releasing the product that it started showing some resemblance of working out. Considering Twitter was a side project within Odeo I am (gratefully) surprised that they stuck with it for that long and continued investing in the project.The first spike in user signups for Twitter came when cofounder Ev Williams wrote the blog post "Twitter is alive" on his personal blog evhead.com. Ev being the creator of blogger.com (and later Twttr and Medium) had some resemblance of online influence and his post would help attract about 150 new signups to the platform.Two days after Ev's blog post, Om Malik, who had recently quit his job to pursue blogging full-time on his personal blog "Gigaom", wrote a post about Twttr which you can still read it here.A day after the Om Malik's blog post, Techcrunch's cofounder Michael Arrington would write the first of many Techcrunch pieces on the service (read here).Combined these three posts combined attracted more than 1500 new users to the service...bringing the total user base to just above 2000 after 100 days of releasing the product.The next growth spurtFollowing the publicity boost in July 2006, Twitter growth would start to decelerate for a couple of months before picking up steam towards the end of 2006 and finally get a much-needed booster in the south by southwest tech conference in March 2007 (which also happens to be when the company turned 1). As Ev explains on QuoraI got a request to answer this question, though contrary to common belief, we didn't launch Twitter at SXSW -- SXSW just chose to blow it up.We launched it nine months before -- to a whimper. By the time SXSW 2007 rolled around, we were starting to grow finally, and it seemed like all of our users (probably in the thousands) were going to Austin that year. So, we did two things to take advantage of the emerging critical mass:We created a Twitter visualizer and negotiated with the festival to put flat panel screens in the hallways. This is something they'd never done before, but we didn't want a booth on the trade show floor because we knew hallways is where the action was. We paid $11K for this and set up the TVs ourselves. (This was about the only money Twitter's ever spent on marketing.)We created an event-specific feature, where, you could text 'join sxsw' to 40404. Then you would show up on the screens. And, if you weren't already a Twitter user, you'd automatically be following a half-dozen or so "ambassadors," who were Twitter users also at SXSW. We advertised this on the screens in the hallways. (I don't know how many people signed up this way -- my recollection is not a lot.)I don't know the most critical factor, but networks are all about critical mass, so doubling down on the momentum seemed like a good idea. And something clicked.Twitter as we know itTwitter would go on to capitalize on this moment by raising their first venture money of $5.5m lead by Fred Wilson @ Union Square Venture and spin out Twitter from Odeo as a separate product. A few months later, a light earthquake would hit San Francisco and SF twitter would light up with inquiries about the quake...shining light on a new product direction that would take the service from an internet archive of status updates to a real-time newsfeed of everything that is going on in the world that we know today.This is it for today 😉, Ali Abouelatta

SubscribeHello Friends 👋, The other day right after I upgraded to iOS 15, I found myself down the rabbit hole of top grossing apps, something I have not done in years. To my surprise, dating apps still dominate the rankings, with so many new emerging apps I have never heard of.That surprise manifested into curiosity and it wasn’t long after that I found myself digging down the rabbit holes of the internet about how dating apps get their first 1000 customers. Let’s dive right in1. Match.com (1995)Offline EventsAfter constantly a barricade of “what is the internet?” reply when trying to recruit women at straight bar to join match.com, Kremen shifted his focus to the gay community who had already been early adopters of the internet.Glinsky went to a gay computer club, where members gathered to talk about AOL and the latest deals at Radio Shack, to explain Match to the crowd. Match held a promotion during a gay skate night at a roller rink in Burlingame, just north of Palo Alto. Bailliere and Glinsky urged skaters to come over and learn more about Match, offering to take their photos with giant digital cameras—which seemed exotic at the time. One by one, the skaters marveled at seeing their faces appear on the computers, and word began to spread. - The Atlantic2. Plenty Of Fish (2003)SEOI was looking for a way to improve my resume so I can get a job as a developer, I hate reading books as a developer I would rather go do something. What I did was I went and thought what was the hardest thing I could develop. I thought dating website would be really changing, back then there wasn't any dating website that was dynamic. Over the next two weeks I went and created a website.Somehow Google started indexing the website and after about two weeks people started signing up and I was like WOW there are people signing up here. I thought I should take this more seriously and stared adding more and more features. By end of June Adsense came out and I about 4,000 people signed up all through Google. I made $1000 from Adsense I thought maybe I should start taking this more seriously and it blew up from there - Markus Frind3.Tinder (2012)College CampusesI had to get really crafty, I took a picture of one of my girlfriends and one of my guy friends and dropped them into the match screen. I wrote a big thing on top of it saying FIND OUT WHO LIKES YOU ON CAMPUS and printed a thousand copies and offered a bunch of people $20 to help me put them everywhere around the SMU campusI rallied all my friends who were still at school, I had just graduated a year earlier and we made the rounds. We went to all the sorority house and told all the girls you have to download this app because college is all about meeting people and right now you are only meeting people you hangout with. We then ran into the fraternity houses and said a different pitch. Hey guys you have no other way to access 100s of sorority girls now download the app because they’re all waiting for you.- Whitney Wolfe4. Hinge (2012)Launch PartyAfter failing to gain any traction for the better part of a year, Hinge rebuilt its app for mobile and decided to have a large giant launch party that was attended by over 3,000 guests.5. Coffee Meets Bagel (2012)Launch PressDespite being in a crowded industry, Coffee Meets Bagel managed to garner significant amount of press around its launch. During launch week the company was featured on Techcrunch, Venture Beat, Glamour and many other smaller publications.6.Bumble (2014)College CampusesWhitney Wolfe, cofounder of Tinder, created Bumble shortly after she left Tinder. I had a little bit of a playbook. I maybe done it once before. I went back to SMU and went back to all those sororities and spoke from the heart…I have lived through the pain points of male dominated relationships….every other women in the sorority house chances are they felt it too…. Me and my early team members, we went in there and took pizza boxes with stickers on it, and offered a piece of pizza to the fraternity boys, we wrapped cookies in bumble stickers and took all sorts of goodies and we growth hacked our way to success - Whitney Wolfe7. Monet (2020)TiktokMonet is a dating app that matches people based on their drawing. When they launched the app on Tiktok, this video got over 500,000 views. I absolutely love this video!8.Thursday (2020)Offline Marketing StuntsBefore Thursday, the dating app that only works on Thursday, was a pivot out of Honeypot. They placed whiteboards with quirky messages around the streets of London.Nana A. @nanaansah31Spotted outside Southwark station this afternoon. A very clever piece of #WhiteboardAdvertising by @honeypot_dating in attempts to cut through the noise of advertising by large companies today. Intriguing, lighthearted and well targeted too. 5:32 PM ∙ Aug 27, 20193Likes1RetweetKatie Aldridge @katieaaldridgeInnovative way of getting the attention of potential users. @honeypot_dating combines offline with online marketing in a really clever way. #greatmarketing 7:36 AM ∙ Aug 9, 20197Likes5RetweetsRichard Baker @bakerpicturesWhen you see something rather decent in the City then learn it's a PR stunt. No-one has cheated anyone and love endures @honeypot_dating 12:36 PM ∙ Aug 8, 20195Likes1Retweet9.Snack (2021)TiktokSnack is a Tinder meet Tiktok dating app for Gen Z. The app on Tiktok and got over 150,000 views.This was fun🤩. Until we meet next week,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Subscribe🤷‍♂️What do they do?Zumper is the largest private apartment rental platform in North America, competing with Trulia, Zillow, Street Easy, and many other companies. Their mission is to make renting an apartment as easy as booking a hotel. With a $143m in backing from Andreeson Horowitz, Kleiner Perkins, and Greycroft, they have the fire-power to make right on their promise.🦁How did this come about?..... isn't there already so many players in this space?Zumper was started in 2012 by Anthemos "Anth" Georgiades, an ex-BCG consultant studying at Harvard Business School at the time. Having had to move around seven times during his undergrad and the following 3.5 years at BCG, he was frustrated with how arcane the renting process was. Granted, that search was Okai at the time; you can see and compare listings from the comfort of your home; however, you had to jump hopes to go from finding an apartment you like to sign a lease. To add insult to injury, this process was done in a vacuum—zero transparency. So when he finally got to grad school and encountered the same problem yet again...that was it! He had to do something about it.🐣The Chicken & EggMarketplaces are hard, and they are inherently hard to get started. Early on, Anth had a critical decision to make, should they tackle Supply or Demand from the get-go? For him, he chose Supply. The first two years of the business were dedicated solely to getting supply-side liquidity and having the biggest catalog of rental apartments in their two key Markets: SF & NYC. Their Series A funding was entirely raised on that premise: that they, at the time, had enough supply side to go out and build all the vertical integration tools that would make renting an apartment an "Airbnb like experience."📈Going Bottoms upSo now that they were focused on getting supply side up & running, Anth partnered up with Taylor Glass-Moore. Taylor came from a Brokerage background and has something unique to offer: relationships with landlords, brokers, and property management all across the country. While in other industries, a founder may get away with ruthlessly cold emailing and calling people and companies to sign up to their platform,  realtors, and brokers aren't necessarily your fanboying early adopters. They have been burned many times by startups trying to disintermediate their job and make them obsolete.😎Come for the tools, stay for the marketplace.Equipped with an "in" to the industry, Anth & Taylor went on their mission to sign up as many listings as possible. Their go-to-model was one similar to that of Airbnb. Just like Airbnb created their infamous double posting tool that allowed Airbnb users to upload their listing to craigslist, Zumper built a similar tool "Zumper Pro" where using only a mobile phone, renters can create and upload a listing to Zillow, Trulia, HotPads, and, of course, Zumper. Zumper Pro also allowed users to view all the applicants in one unified dashboard. So often, users didn't necessarily know where this lead came from and would, at times, assume Zumper was a powerful lead generation machine, even though all they did was aggregate leads from their competitors.💸We'll make money laterTo supercharge their growth and acquire about 80% of all listings in NYC & SF on their platform in 2 years, Zumper offered its pro tool entirely for free. This was the single biggest acquisition driver for Zumper early on. With Taylor's connection to the industry it was an almost no-brainer for realtors and brokers alike to adapt:More Leads ✅Less Work ✅Costs 0$✅By focusing on just getting listings on their website, the marketplace naturally started growing to about 30k visitors a month. That's when Anth switched gears and started going after the demand side....and that is the story of how Zumper got its #first1000 listings. See you next Saturday 👋Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Subscribe👽Just in case you live on another universe.DoorDash is the leading food delivery platform in the United States, with around 45% market share of meal delivery sales founded in 2012 by then Stanford students Tony Xu, Stanley Tang, Andy Fang, and Evan Moore.🎬Let's start from the beginning...Tony Xu grew up in a family of Small Business Owners, and to him and his cofounders, they identified this was the domain they wanted to solve. So they went out and created a bunch of different "experiments" pitching different ideas to small business owners, and in one of those meetings, the owner Chloe burst out, "Well, there is one thing I wanted to show you." She took out a thick booklet. It was pages and pages of delivery orders. "This drives me crazy. I have no drivers to fulfill them, and I'm the one doing all of it." The rest is history.⏱The following three months.For the following months, Tony and his cofounders, knew that they needed to learn a lot more about the problem? Delivery is a decade-old problem that many hundreds, if not thousands of people, tried to tackle. Moreover, some more prominent corporations seemingly have been going around it well as Dominos and FedEx that each delivers over millions of orders every month. Tony signed up to be a driver for these platforms, and concurrently, they went to interview around 150-200 Small Business Owners to understand this space as deeply as they can.Some of the early lessons they uncovered were that literally, drivers had to write their schedules on a sheet of paper and wait for their boss to call in to confirm their working hours. But they never get it right; you either have too many or too few even for places like Dominos that delivers over 1m orders/day.💻MVP is just an MVPAfter they were validated and soaked as much knowledge as possible about the problem space, they launched their first MVP in just a few hours. Their first website didn't have an online booking process – customers would have to call a phone number on the site (which was just one of the founder's mobile phones). There was no fancy dispatch system or any backend for that matter. Nor did they go out and recruit any drivers – they listed times when they could make the deliveries themselves (whenever they weren't sitting in lectures). They didn't even talk to the cafes and restaurants they had put on the website.🥇The first orderWhen they launched their landing page, they wanted to validate that indeed people have the problem they are trying to solve and are willing to pay for it, and hence they didn't spend any time or money on "Marketing" or "Growth Hacking." Instead, they wanted to reach people in Palo Alto, searching for food delivery. They named their website PaloAltoDelivery.com in hopes that this would prompt the google engine to display their webpage favorably when people search for "Palo Alto Delivery." It  worked. Half an hour of launching their page, they got their first phone call for a Thai Food order.🙌The next 199 OrdersFor the first 200 orders, the founders did everything by themselves. They did not hire any dashers and only delivered in two timeslots from 12 pm- 1:30 pm, and from 5:30 pm to 8:00 pm, these were the timings that they could make work between themselves and their classes.To help kickstart things on the Stanford campus, Tony sent an email introducing PaloAltoDelivery to his dorms. Between that and the organic reach from google search, they managed to get enough traction to deliver their first 200 orders all without hiring a single dasher.🧗🏻‍♀️Moving Forward.From there capitalizing on the early traction and word of mouth, the team would go down University Avenue, just passing out flyers trying to promote DoorDash. They would manually email every new customer at the end of every night, asking how their first delivery went, and how they heard about them. They would personalize all these emails: If they saw someone order chicken skewers from Oren's Hummus, they would say, "Oh, I love Oren's Hummus. How are your chicken skewers? How did you hear about us?" Feedback like that was precious, and customers appreciated that. They used this feedback to build and improve their product and build a close relationship with their early adaptors that would turn into advocates, and it wasn't until the first couple of years that they ran any paid marketing campaign.Subscribe

Subscribe🧐What an unusual name...The DoNotPay app is the home of the world's first robot lawyer. Their tagline is "Fight corporations, beat bureaucracy, and sue anyone at the press of a button." DoNotPay helped users get out of parking tickets, get compensated for delayed flights, cancel subscriptions, and jump the line with customer service representatives... all without having to break a sweat. They charge a subscription fee of 3$/month that only starts once customers save some money!🏗Build for yourself...build for yourself..build for yourselfGetting your very first customer is a milestone to celebrate, and if you are building a product for yourself, then congrats, you made it past the first stop in this long, lonely and dreadful journey of being a founder. DoNotPay, as many other great companies, started by a founder frustration. Joshua Browder, 18 at the time, had just gotten his driving license and racked up a portfolio of 30 or so parking tickets within nine months. He didn't have the money to pay for these $100-$200 tickets and so he had to find creative ways to get out of them. After 10 hours of researching how to get tickets dismissed, Joshua figured out that it was easier than anticipated. All he had to do was draft legal letters to the concerned authorities. These letters often had grounds because the government did not follow its own rules when issuing tickets (they didn't have a sign to indicate how to park, the parking spot was too small for a car to fit in..etc). He managed to get 50% of his tickets dismissed, and boy was he onto something.👭👫So you build a product for yourself, now what?Then it would be helpful if you found a handful of people just like you, start with your friends, family, and extended network. This is what Joshua did, for the next ten users, he showed his solution to a few friends at Stanford and told them they too could get out of parking tickets if they use DoNotPay. Given that there was no revenue at the time, it must have been worth at least a try! And for him, he managed to get some valuable feedback to incorporate into the product for the big launch.🚀Going from a handful to many many thousandsUnlike other stories we have covered in this newsletter, DoNotPay went from 1 user(Joshua) to 10 Users(Stanford Friends) to 35,000 users in just one week. So let's dive into how Joshua created one of the best go to market strategies in the past decade or so.Relentless focus on his channels. DoNotPay focused all their energy and effort on two key channels. Media Exposure and Reddit. They did not A/B test a bunch of experiments or try out a plethora of channels. They knew it was hard enough to get picked up by any major publication, and any article published they could then post on subreddits to increase their reach even further. They didn't have giveaways. They didn't have referral programs; they just went relentlessly after reporters for coverage.Drafting a good story.It all came down to clicks. How can Joshua craft a pitch that reporters would know it can generate clicks? If you took storytelling 101 in middle school, you know that for any story, you need a hero and villain + a few buzzwords won't hurt. - Villian: Government Buearacy, gov bill their citizen unjustly to hit their budget- Hero: 19-year old created a free solution to help you fight government Buearacy- Buzzwords: Stanford, 19 years, World's First Robot Lawyer, 'daylight robbery'..etcThe Good Old Hustle. Lots and lots and lots of these. Every time Joshua managed to get featured in a publication, he would use that and show it to other reporters and ask them if they too would want to run a piece on his company.During their first week's launch, they got featured in This is Money, Telegraph UK, Mirror UK, Mashable, Huffington Post and many others. These articles would soon (in a couple of days) start showing up across some of the largest subreddits like r/technology. It is unclear whether they have been picked up organically by hardcore Reddit users or whether the team at DoNotPay had something to do with it. Either way, they pulled off 35,000 users in launch week and 50,000 in the first couple of weeks, and ohhh btw..they were only accepting customers in the UK at the time!That's it for today! See you next Saturday 😉,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Jared Smith @jareditorSmart branding from @workweekinc 👏

Those gold circles jump out, building awareness for the brand each time a creator tweets. 

Feels like gold is all over my feed these days. 9:31 PM ∙ May 12, 202259Likes6RetweetsFew things in the journey from 0→ 🚀 compound as nicely as building an audience. If you want an audience, you need a brand!I love how Workweek (<1 year old) is killing it with their brand. They completely owned their yellow background on Twitter. h/t to @Jared for sharing thisWhy does it work 💡?After noticing something different for the first time, there is a tendency for our brain to notice it more often, leading us to believe that it has an increased frequency of occurrence (Frequency illusion)5 strategies for a new brand to stand out online Leverage Emojis ☕️ (e.g. Morning Brew)Leverage Colors 🟡 ( e.g. Workweek)Leverage Art (e.g Notion)Leverage mascots (e.g Duolingo)Leverage a signature style (e.g. visualize value)Those are the 5 dead simple things to implement that I saw brands/companies utilize to build a coherent online brand image.I am sure other tactics exist.See you next Tuesday,Ali Abouelatta (@abouelatta_ali)

Hello Friends 👋,In this post, I look into 6 iconic pieces of content startups created that made for good stories and helped them break through. Stories travel far on the internet. A good story, like any other piece of content, should be:Unique: offers a fresh piece of information or a novel perspective.Surprising: disrupts expectations or norms or contains unexpected twists.Correct: is truthful and factually accurate. It's grounded in a reality, even when it's a work of fiction.—#1 The one about the weird mattress guys on Youtube:Purple turned sleepless nights into comic relief with 'Purple Boys,' a YouTube series where the absence of Purple mattresses is the punchline. (Youtube link)#2 The one about this “genius” ad I saw on Twitter:Beehiiv’s recent remote Office Manager is a great example of creating content others can use to tell a good story.People talking about the “genius” behind the job brought them more eyeballs than the post.#3 The one about swiping right on every guy on Bumble:I wrote about Clara’s story using Bumble to seed her social startup on First 1000. More people read the story and learned about Wegosh than the number of guys she swiped right on.Growth Hack: WegoshAli Abouelatta·Feb 21Hey Frens 👋 One of you sent me this tweet after my last issue on Canva, and I can’t get it out of my mind. Clara Gold, from Wegosh, replied to 9000+ likes on Bumble with the link to download her app. 1000 people did! Crazy! Remember: Growth hacks are like Tinder dates - they might be fun for a night, but don't expect a long-term growth without some s…Read full story#4 The one about tipping your investors $1:Chatterbox's CEO used Venmo to sprinkle $1 tips on potential investors and get an initial meeting.But that did not help him close the round. What did was this story making its way into the tech media cycle.#5 The one about creating a broadway show:Skittles used their super bowl budget to create "Broadway the Rainbow," a witty theatrical satire on the ad industry. This $200 Broadway Skittles show made for a good story!#6 The one about the seagull drone:Nivea Kids Sunscreen squirting sunscreen onto children on public beaches from a weird-looking seagull drone will continue to make an iconic case study on guerrilla marketing. (Source)—If there is one takeaway to take from this post is that as we saw from all these examples, what makes a good story is very different from what makes a good product…Good stories don’t need a good product to stand on.So help people tell good stories!Until next week, Ali Abouelatta

Hi frens, 👋Today I would like to introduce Jaryd. The machine behind How they Grow Newsletter.How They GrowIn-depth analyses on the growth of popular companies, including their early strategies, current tactics, and the business-building lessons we can learn from them.By Jaryd HermannI picked up on How They Grow, late last year & it quickly rose up to the top of my newsletter feeds. In a way, it is the sequel to many of my issues. I spend a lot of my time researching, talking to founders and thinking about the early-day growth and Jaryd does the same but for the later stages of a company’s life.The synergy was so natural, so I tapped Jaryd today to tell us the Canva story. From the very early days until yesterdayJaryd, over to you! —By Jaryd HermannI love writing and going down all sorts of research rabbit holes, and my newsletter How They Grow allows me to do a lot of that while also learning from the best companies out there. It’s been a blast, and thank you so much for the kind words that let me know you’re enjoying it too. For instance, “Dude I’m only half way thru your OpenAI deep dive and I have like 10 tabs open to read for later — this is amazing”. You know who you are, thank you…Now, depending on how long you’ve been reading my stuff, you may have noticed this newsletter allows me to do something else I really love…Design!When there’s a visual I want to include in a post (e.g a timeline, market map, biz model, or flywheel) I get all giddy inside because design is just one of those things that I enjoy doing probably a lot more than I should. But, I’m no designer. And I think I’d be deeply lost in tools made for designers (i.e the Adobe stuff) — and if that’s all that was available, you’d have a lot less/worse graphics in these deep dives.So, today, we’re going to look at the company that makes design easy and accessible to over 100M people. The startup that kicked the latest evolutionary stage of design from complex desktop publishing tools to simple web publishing tools in motion — finding an extremely value gap in the $128b design services market. The startup from down under that makes me, mom-and-pops’, and people from Fortune 500 companies happy every week. Today, we’re going deep on Canva.Alrighty, here’s what to expect today:How Canva startedCanva’s early growth and GTM strategy → from 0 their first 150k usersHow Canva drives their growth today → from 150K to +100M usersLet’s get right to it. 🎨NB: If you’re reading this in your email right now, click to read the full thing 👇Read this in my browserHow They StartedCanva is in the business of making the world a better looking place. And they’re doing it by breaking down the walled gardens of design and making it possible for everyday folks to create things that look good and get the job done.Design is all around us…but before Canva came along the status quo was either hire a designer, or bushwhack your way to a graphic yourself…usually hurting many eyes along the way.And then Melanie Perkins, Cliff Obrecht, and Cameron Adams came along in 2013 with their free-to-use, do-it-yourself design platform with everything “lowercase d” designers could ever need. Like an intuitive UI that doesn’t scare people away, simple and powerful tools that don’t require any training, and beautiful templates to get the ball rolling. Plus, it was brought online into the browser…no more downloads/licenses/updates.We now live in a world where there isn’t really an excuse for poor design.But 17 years ago, it wasn’t so obvious to most people that we’d get here. In 2006, Melanie Perkins had a big vision for the future of design: “to take the entire design ecosystem, integrate it into one page, and then make it accessible to the whole world”.That’s a big vision for a big market, but 100s of VC’s turned it down.So let’s take a look at how Canva broke into the world of Adobe and Microsoft and got to work on Melanie’s huge goal for the future of design.Big dreams (mostly) start smallIt all started in Perth, at the University of Western Australia.It was 2006, and Melanie Perkins was working her side hustle of teaching other students basic design on programs like InDesign and Photoshop. Being hands-on with students regularly, she soon identified a pattern. People who had no interest in being designers by trade found the platforms available hard and unnecessarily infuriating to learn. And like most founding stories go… she felt there must be a better way.I found that the design tools I was teaching were really clunky and difficult to use. I thought it seemed silly that they were all desktop-based and absurd that it took so long to use them. Facebook was taking off at the time — people could jump in and use that so easily and yet design tools took years of training to learn.Desktop design tools seemed excessively difficult and it seemed crazy they were desktop based.People would have to spend an entire semester learning where the buttons were, and that seemed completely ridiculous. I thought that in the future, it was all going to be online and collaborative and much, much simpler than these really hard tools.— Melanie Perkins, Co-Founder and CEOShe recalls the process of designing and printing a poster — composing it in Photoshop or Word, converting to the right size and saving as a PDF, then going to a store to print. It all seemed cumbersome and unnecessary in the age of the internet.💡Wouldn’t it be much better to do it all in one place with one online tool?💡The idea of making design really simple was born. And although this pitch deck would not come for another few years, these two slides sum up how Melanie was thinking about where design was going, and how her big idea would fit in.The problem felt so obvious, and she feared if she didn’t move fast someone else would beat her to it.So, Melanie and her boyfriend, Cliff Obrecht, decided the best way to move quickly on this ambitious idea and test the concept was to break it down and start small. Being at university and close to the lives of students, she knew there was one niche that was right there, and underserved — school yearbooks. Typically the responsibility of student volunteers, and typically a tedious process because of the learning curve of the design tools and all the steps to get from A to Z, they knew this was how to get their foot in the door.So, they hired freelancers to help them build the site, dubbed in Fusion Books, and spun up their operation (including printing) in Melanie’s mom’s lounge. This initial pre-Canva product allowed students and schools to create their own yearbooks with simple drag and drop tools, and offered a library of customizable templates. While tightly focused on a very specific niche and use case — this concept became the core of Canva.And from here, Melanie and Cliff got their first customers for Fusion Books with boots-on-the-ground tactics — tapping into their student network and good-ol’ direct mail and phone calls.We experimented with direct mail campaigns to schools around Australia. Our families helped us to fold every letter, stuff every envelope and stick and lick the post-stamps. It was all very manual, but we learnt the ropes and got to learn about running and growing a business, developing software and marketing. Importantly, we learned the fundamentals of how to create a product that provides enough value that people are happy to pay for it.But were trying everything we knew how in order to find our customers. We flew over to attend an education expo in Sydney, there were more exhibitors than attendees so that was definitely a flop!In the end, we found calling schools and sending them a sample yearbook proved to be the most effective way to generate leads. We continued doing this every year, with our very kind families.— Melanie PerkinsBut Melanie knew this wasn’t going to be the industry changing business she envisioned. How could it be when yearbooks happen only once a year and your total market demand is basically capped. Still, this very early concept got to the core problem they wanted to solve — easy online design — and they were very close to their customers. So they leaned into it to learn as much as they could.And Fusion Books grew into a nice lifestyle business. Surprisingly, it wasn’t until 4 years later that they starting getting closer to democratizing design for all.It was 2011 when Melanie spotted the narrowest of opportunities. Bill Tai, a Silicon Valley VC, was in Perth to judge a startup competition and get some kitesurfing in. They approached him after the event for a quick chat. Bill liked what they were putting down and invited them to San Francisco to pitch the idea.He was the first investor we’d ever met, and the short five minute chat felt like a window had opened into a whole new world.We didn’t really make a conscious choice between being bootstrapped or being funded. We bootstrapped because that was the only thing we knew when we started and we pursued funding because it seemed like the only feasible path to truly pursue our vision and build out ‘the future of publishing’.— Melanie PerkinsA few months later, after anxiously figuring things out in Perth and preparing for the world of venture capital — she flew to SF to meet Bill.In short, there was a very messy middle between flying to the states and eventually raising money and launching Canva. She was met with a lot of rejection, and it wasn’t before she recruited their technical co-founder, Cameron Adams, that they managed to raise a seed round of $3M.And on the 28th June 2012, Melanie, Cliff, and Cameron founded Canva. With a fresh new entity, cash in the bank, and a founding team — they were ready to get to work on changing how the world would design things.Let’s see how they did it.SubscribeCanva’s early growth and GTM strategyWe’ll start off by looking at Canva’s go-to-market strategy, covering an important concept in GTM motions that comes from WW2— the beachhead. 🪖 The tactics we’ll look at here got them some pretty incredible growth, and give us some great lessons for builders.We’ll then look beyond their GTM and unpack Canva’s current drivers of growth, the stuff that brings them +100% annual growth across a variety of their key metrics.Canva’s path to 150K usersTo make sense of Canva’s approach to breaking into the market, let’s first look at a concept I came across while reading Geoffrey Moore’s iconic business book, “Crossing The Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream Customers”.We’ll kick it off with this visual…Source graphic: Crossing the ChasmOn the far left, you’ll notice the smaller chasm. This first market hurdle is where a new product has to translate its idea into something beneficial and usable to people beyond a small group of die hard tech enthusiast — known as innovators. These are the people that will just try just about anything as long as it has something novel to it and they like what it stands for. They don’t care for bugs and will tolerate all sorts of product issues that the rest of the market won’t.The key to getting beyond the enthusiasts and winning over a visionary [Early Adopters] is to show that the new technology enables some strategic leap forward, something never before possible, which has an intrinsic value and appeal to the non-technologist.― Geoffrey A. Moore, Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling Disruptive Products to Mainstream CustomersThen there is the big scary chasm. This is the main chasm the book focuses on, and it’s where startups often die in their journey to going mainstream.And as the graphic above shows, it represents the big gap between two distinct markets:Early market adopters and insiders → “Visionaries. The people who are quick to appreciate the benefits of a new product as long as it has utility and works.Mainstream market → “Pragmatists”. The people who want to benefit from new tech but don’t want to “experience” the growing pains of it.Trying to cross the chasm without taking a niche market approach is like trying to light a fire without kindling.— Geoffrey A. Moore, Crossing the Chasm: Marketing and Selling High-Tech Products to Mainstream CustomersFinding a beachheadIn other words, the key to crossing the chasm is positioning and securing a “beachhead” in a mainstream market.Okay, what’s a beachhead though?Simply put, your beachhead is the smallest customer segment you can target that serves as a point of attack into the main market you want to break into. This niche has a set of characteristics that make it an ideal place to focus your initial effort.While I learned about it in Geoffrey’s book — the idea actually goes back to WW2.It’s a military strategy that advocates that, as you are approaching an enemy territory, you should plan and focus all your resources on winning a small border area that becomes a stronghold area from which to advance into the enemy territory.The term references the 1944 invasion of Normandy where allied troops focused their attention on the Normandy beaches, which they used to stage a counter-invasion of Europe and win the Second World War.— via Corporate Financial InstitueTo illustrate…And the strategy can be summarized like this:Select your beachhead (Who is our target customer?): The idea is not to focus on a target market or target segment, but rather on a target customer you can access — AKA your High Expectation Customer (HXC). This is how you keep it super narrow and specific. A great example of a company we looked at that did this was Superhuman. You can learn more about how to tactically find your HXF here.And an important note…bigger niches are almost never better than smaller ones. According to the Geoffrey Moore, “the only time when a niche is too small is if it’s too small to generate half of next year’s sales”.Get your product offer right for them (Why are they selecting our product over competition?): The key difference between early and mainstream markets is that the former are willing to take responsibility for piecing together the whole product… the latter are not.What you want to do is (1) get your value proposition right, and (2) develop a whole product, which solves all problems for a niche, then go from there. It’s about being laser focused on the customer and the product they need.Nail your distribution (What channels are we going to use to reach these customers?): Figure out the best way to reach this segment. Find out where they’re hanging out (think online and offline) and meet them where they are.Push into your next wave of target customers (How does this initial customer group help us get to the rest of the market?): Once you’ve got your foot in the door (AKA your wedge), use that leverage and push onwards.And while Crossing the Chasm came out in 1991, that same year…another person was centering their strategy around the same principle. Only the mind behind what’s now the most valuable company on the planet.Taking a page from Steve Jobs’ → finding their nicheIf there’s one suggestion I ever make that you take seriously, I hope it’s this one.Watch this video by Steve Jobs talking about his strategy for NeXT computers — he articulates this idea of a beachhead so perfectly, plus it’s an 18 minute masterclass on clarity and strategic communication. To me, this sits at the heart of not just go-to-markets, but marketing.And as we bring this quick theory session back to Canva-specifics — we’ll see they did exactly this.At the most zoomed out level — Melanie and Cliff knew there was this massive, growing, and underserved market of amateur/consumer designs. And as we covered earlier, they picked designers of school year books as their beachhead.Fusion Books (a super niche product) then transformed into Canva (a much more widely applicable tool). This approach helped them form a much deeper understanding of their target audience and their Job-To-Be-Done — helping them craft a better product.And with the earliest version of Canva, equipped with a more finessed whole product, we can see they pushed a bit further into the mainstream market they were after.Source: Canva Pitch DeckBut that middle segment (consumer designers) isn’t exactly niche. In fact, it’s massive. So, they narrowed it down to a specific use case — people needing to make content for Facebook. And more specifically, social media marketers and bloggers who needed to create lots of beautiful visual content but didn’t necessarily have any design experience. In 2013, small businesses were flocking to FB, and they needed professional-looking graphics like cover photos, flyers, social posts, event banners, etc. Canva identified this trend/problem and saw how they could position their product to easily appeal to this slice of the market and solve this huge pain point.So, going back to our theory from above — #1, “Select your beachhead” — we know who they targeted and why. But, how did they actually acquire their first customers?Let’s investigate.Leveraging communities for feedback and distribution.Canva started out in a private beta and used waitlists to control onboarding and build up demand. And before releasing publicly, they had over 50K people waiting to get access.How?The main thing they did was generate buzz within the design community and adjacent groups needing design help. Melanie and Cliff chased press, and reached out to blogs, podcasts, and conferences to offer “early access” to their audiences.And anyone on the waitlist who tweeted about Canva usually onboarded immediately. This pushed Canva’s name further and drummed up more hype.Taking a more gradual ramp up with waitlists is a highly effective strategy (tactics outlined here in our Superhuman deep dive) — and this closed beta allowed the team to run a tight feedback cycle and iterate on the product before the next bigger wave of customers were given access.Once we identified the problem we wanted to solve, we then broke it down into more tangible goals. We listened to and worked closely with our community to build a product they wanted, felt empowered by, and loved using to reach their goals.— Camera Adams, Co-founder and Chief Product OfficerShareWatching users, removing friction, and showing people how to use the productTowards their goal of launching a whole product that people loved using, Canva spent a lot of time user testing during the pre-release period (via usertesting.com). This turned out to be key to unlocking their early growth— because they found a pretty significant issue. Their target customers who had never used any design software before “were scared to touch buttons”.It became quickly apparent that it was not just the tools themselves that were preventing people from creating great designs, but also people’s own belief that they can’t design.Users were scared to click much and when they did they wandered around aimlessly, struggled with a few things, created something that looked pretty average and then left feeling dejected. Not quite the fun journey we were hoping for users to experience.In order for Canva to take off — we had to get every person who came into our product to have a great experience in a couple of minutes. We needed to change their own self belief about their design abilities, we needed to give them design needs and we needed to make them feel happy and confident clicking around. We needed to get them to explore and play in Canva. No short order! So we spent months perfecting the onboarding experience paying particular attention to users’ emotional journey.— MPSo, to boost confidence, new users went through a “how-to” guide before entering the product. Canva also built very basic starter challenges, like changing the color of a circle or adding a hat to a monkey - which helped users get familiar with the platform. “We continuously refined the experience until we got it to a point that people could jump in, and within five minutes had designed something,” says Perkins.This is a great example of how focusing on the customer and their experience is key to kickstarting growth. Get rid of the friction!Ok, so following our beachhead framework here, that’s how Canva did #2, “Get your product offer right for them” ✅. And below, we can also see how Canva ticked off #3 “Nail your distribution”.Focusing on a use case that was inherently viralThe niche use case that Canva picked for their GTM was designs for Facebook — this was tactically brilliant because at the time, FB was a great distribution channel to get Canva designs in front of as many people as possible.The Facebook templates drove referrals as users invited their colleagues to collaborate. It also drove word of mouth because when people posted a Canva graphic on Facebook, others would ask how they made it.Plus, Canva made it super easy for users to share the design (with one click) on Pinterest, Facebook, and Twitter. By doing this, a small number of users opened up a much larger audience.This graphic from Canva’s seed deck illustrates this strategy perfectly.Another example of this was how Canva leaned into a seasonal trend — holiday cards. For their first holiday season, they collaborated with artists to create 30+ templates for digital cards. Most were distributed via Facebook and email, which again funneled users back to Canva.And the most important fuel to Canva’s early growth was much simpler than all of this. People are inherently proud of their creations. Canva allowed people to create, and word of mouth organically drove a ton of growth.Leveraging social proof vs paid advertisingThese early adopters became Canva’s growth engine by sharing their designs with their friends.Social currency in the sense of our community has always been incredibly valuable for us. More than 10 million people use Canva in 179 countries, and much of that growth has come through word of mouth and our users sharing about us.— MPLots of startups looking to kickstart growth go straight to paid advertising, but besides hurting the bank, there’s diminishing returns when it comes to growth via ad dollars. As Reid DeRamus explains:It’s important to note that paid ads are often not the best way to drive growth early on. Like many other types of investments, investing in paid ads and marketing typically work best to accelerate growth. If it feels like you’re pushing a boulder up the hill, it’s probably best to avoid paid ads. But if it feels like the wind is at your back — your product is in a good spot, you’ve found your audience, and you’re experiencing solid organic growth — paid ads can be a great way to amplify growth.— Reid DeRamus (Growth at Substack), via Driving Growth with Paid AdsDitto.I’m a strong believer that in most cases, you want to get a sustainable engine of growth working before leaning into paid advertising. Not only because it’s “free” growth that compounds on itself, but because it’s a signal that you have PMF. People don’t expend their valuable social credibility telling people about stuff they don’t like.That being said, while word of mouth is great (and often conflated with viral growth), Ben Thompson raises an interesting point:The problem with a word-of-mouth business and exponential growth is people run out of people to talk to.That’s the limiting factor. There’s a little bit of exponential with every new subscriber, because they will tell new people, but networks get exhausted.— Ben Thompson, via Acquired PodcastOkay, we’re at the point in Canva’s growth story where what they did next, I would have typically dubbed viral growth. Except, if I called it that, I think I’d be wrong… 😬Lenny Rachitsky wrote a piece recently that changed my view on what is “viral” — or rather, what isn’t. Let’s take a quick look, and then see how it applies to Canva.One-to-many broadcasts, AKA Canva’s turbo boostsOver the holiday break I was reading Hit Makers by Derek Thompson and one of the chapters forever changed the way I think about growth. […]One of his most surprising findings (at least for me) was that going “viral” is mostly a myth. We think that products often grow through friends telling friends, who tell more friends, and this cascades to so-called viral growth. It turns out this is almost never how products grow. Instead, products explode in popularity when someone (or a few someones) with a large platform shares the product with their audience.Here’s Derek Thompson describing this phenomenon:People are social creatures—they talk, they share, they pass things along. But unlike with an actual virus, a person chooses to be infected by an idea, and most people who confront any given thing don’t pass it along. Viral diseases tend to spread slowly, steadily, across many generations of infection. But information cascades are the opposite: They tend to spread in short bursts and die quickly.The gospel of virality has convinced some marketers that the only way that things become popular these days is by buzz and viral spread. But these marketers vastly overestimate the reliable power of word of mouth. Much of what outsiders call virality is really a function of what one might call ‘dark broadcasters’—people or companies distributing information to many viewers at once, but whose influence isn’t always visible to people outside of the network.— Virality is a myth (mostly), Lenny RachitskyIn his post, Lenny goes on to argue that what we usually think is “viral” hardly ever is. Most things aren’t actually driven by “many people telling many other people”. Rather, it’s the result of someone with a large audience broadcasting it (i.e. one-to-many). Derek Thompson gives this example in his book:Imagine you go to work on a Monday and a coworker tells you about a new guacamole recipe she read in the New York Times. Several hours later, you go to lunch with another coworker, who asks if you’ve heard about the new guacamole recipe he read about in the  New York Times. After work, you go home to your spouse, whose coworker evangelized a new guacamole recipe she found in the New York Times. The common observation is: “The  Times article about guacamole went absolutely viral.” But the truer observation is that the article didn’t go viral in any meaningful sense of the word. It reached a lot of people who read the recipe section of a large international newspaper, and a few of them talked about it.That being said, Lenny notes that optimizing for viral engines like word of mouth is still important, and to kickstart (and restart) things like word of mouth you need to invest in large one-to-many broadcasts (i.e press, influencers, big ads).Now, bringing this quick theory interlude back Canva.Canva continued to invest in mechanisms of virality — like one-click sharing of designs to social media, referrals, and generally building a great/easy-to-use product people wanted to talk about.But, they also invested in a strategy of driving growth via one-to-many broadcasts. This kept adding various turbo boosts (i.e one-off events that accelerate growth temporarily but don’t last) to their word of mouth engine.According to Lenny and Dan Hockeinmeir who created the Racecar Growth Framework —there are 10 different kinds of turbo boosts.Source: Lenny’s NewsletterLet’s look a bit closer at the turbo boosts they used to keep throwing logs on their WoM fire. 🔥Getting influencers to mention them (#4):Canva teamed up with tech influencer Guy Kawasaki. He was known for his credibility in the industry with previous roles at Apple, Motorola and Google, and it was only a matter of time before he’d position Canva in the same league. He helped them triple their users in just two months. But more importantly, Guy became the “Chief Evangelist of Canva” — continuously recommending Canva to his network of millions. On top of this they regularly got tweets and shoutouts from their investors and other big names.Getting PR (#1):Melanie and Cliff worked actively to get Canva’s story in front of huge publications during their early days, like TechCrunch.Creating viral content / marketing campaign (#2 and #5)They created an aspirational launch video to help spread the word, putting some ad dollars behind it to make it a widespread awareness campaign.Going on podcasts/TV (#10)Melanie and Cliff constantly reached out to podcasts to get the Canva name out there, from doing features on episodes to sponsoring some ads.And that’s how Canva kickstarted their early growth and built up and impressive 150K in less than 24 months. 8 years later, they’ve almost 1000X that. How? 👇SubscribeHow Canva grows todayAs far as I can tell — there are 4 main forces behind this:Product-led growth (PLG)Later adding on a sales-led motion to move upstream (SLG)Using content and winning SEO via backlinksLocalizing and partnering to expand geographicallyToday we will only go deep on PLG, since (1) it’s the core driver of Canva’s growth, (2) it’s one of the most important for a B2C SaaS company, and (3) there are a lot of brass tacks building lessons to learn here. We’ll lightly touch on the rest.Canva’s deep PLG icebergWe live in the era of product-led growth. Whether it means creating top of the funnel (ToFu) through virality, guiding users through their activation and engagement journeys, or taking the first steps in an assisted sale, at product led growth companies, the product is the lead actor, and sales, marketing, and engineering are the supporting cast.— Rahul Krishnan, Arjun Rakesh, and Ruchin Kulkarni, via Top of The LyneIn other words — PLG is a growth model where product usage drives customer acquisition, retention, and expansion. It’s a strategy where the product takes center stage and converts users into paying customers (vs sales or marketing). And for consumers businesses, where each individual person is a decision maker, PLG is really the most effective way to onboard and convert them. A normal sales process just isn’t feasible.Canva is a brilliant example of a company that understands how to turn users into product-qualified leads (PQLs), which is great for growth since PQLs convert to paid customers on average 25% of the time.Now, before you get users whipping out their cards…first things first.When somebody is considering a new product, the very first thing they think about, whether they know it or not, is “how does this product help me solve this problem I have?”.The problem could be an aspirational one (i.e the desire to feel fancy), or a practical one (i.e I need to drill this hole). If that answer is hard to find or poorly communicated, everything else inside the product doesn’t really matter, because nobody will care to get there.Analogy time.Think of it like an iceberg. [Let me run over to Canva to illustrate 🧑‍🎨]Layer 1 and layer 2 are the easy-to-see showstoppers. It’s what will visibly causes a PLG company to fail, and it’s essential to have right if this is how a company is choosing to grow. That’s why most PLG companies end up getting this right. Every single iceberg (even a baby one) has a tip.But layer 3 and onwards are not technically essential and are harder to perfect. But the companies that do nail each layer become bigger and more formidable icebergs — meaning they will stick around for a lot longer. And this depth is what will sink competitors passing through. 🚢Running with our iceberg analogy (which as far as I can tell we just invented here 🤘), upon closer investigation we can see Canva is doing every single layer extremely well.The tip → Communicating their value (L1 and L2)If I Googled something like “how to make a logo”, I’d quickly find myself on this page.Dead simple, and super clear that Canva solves this problem for me. And Canva has tons of search optimized landing pages for the breadth of problems they solve for consumer designers.Each page is personalized for the specific use case, and touches on specific value points that somebody considering designing, say, a resume will be thinking.And given Canva is free to use — this makes the decision easy to move along.Going deeper along the PLG iceberg….Removing friction during onboarding (L3)Canva’s onboarding is seamless. They use single-sign on (i.e Google, FB) to make creating an account simple, and based on the landing page you’re coming from they bake in a lot of context around why you’re joining Canva.Then, with just a few easy questions — they suggest templates that will help you get the job done as quickly as possible (moving you closer to that Aha! moment).All in, getting from a landing page into the product, and having a working canvas to start your design, takes less than a minute This makes Canva extremely easy to try, with literally no risk.But onboarding goes beyond just the browser. For example, if you haven’t taken an action within an hour of signing up, you get an email with the subject “Design? You can do that.”After a user gets the first welcome email, if they haven’t clicked on the ‘get started’ button, they get some helpful and concise content to encourage that first action. And once the user has activated (started their first design) — Canva sends out weekly newsletters that cover things like: new templates, how to create on-trend designs, new features, and the beginning of their upsell with the benefits of Canva Pro.Canva keeps their marketing material practical — focusing on educating vs selling.Simply, because education brings users close to value, and repeat value.Value discovery and Aha! moments (L4 and L5)Canva’s whole shtick is that it’s the easiest design tool, period.And it has to be if they’re on a mission to make design available to anyone.The benefit of this is that they bring their learning curve way down. Education during onboarding can be friendly and more of a nudge, vs “documentation” and intense product tours that can be overwhelming.If you’re downloading Adobe Illustrator, it’ll be far longer before you find yourself staring at a canvas you’re proud of.Take a look:Chalk and cheese.Where the cheese here is clearly much less intimidating than traditional design software. Meaning the time to an end-product that makes people feel proud of themselves is orders of magnitude quicker.As their CPO says, a key philosophy of theirs is “have great defaults”, and defaults along with a huge template library make learning much easier. This makes the early discovery of the tool quick, but still allows users to go deeper with functionality as they get more comfortable.And when it takes just 20 minutes to make a logo vs 20 hours…people are likely to talk about it.That’s the shareable Aha! momentAha! → again and again (L6)But providing just one key value experience isn’t enough to build an enduring business against. You to deliver value over and over again  — and ideally, you’re not making that impossible by hiding your core product value behind a paywall.Canva gives us a masterclass on how to do this. Again, they’re free-to-use. But their freemium product isn’t time based, and it’s not usage based (i.e you can only design 3 things). This gives people open road to keep coming into Canva and making unlimited designs, forming a habit around the tool. For a consumer business, this habit forming is really important.But, how do they get people to keep coming back?First, they cover a huge range of use cases. If you came for a logo, you may well stay for presentations and social media posts. And there’s a lot of sideways product marketing and education to get you trying new things in Canva. This makes them much more sticky because all your designs now live in one place.Second, and this one is a biggie — Canva is vertically integrating the value chain of design.Way back in 2006 when Melanie had the idea to make design easy, she wanted “to take the entire design ecosystem, integrate it into one page, and then make it accessible to the whole world”. This was framed well in their first investor deck.They’ve executed on that vision. No more working across multiple tools and piecemealing your workflow together. Canva has made one place for everything, where they get to craft a perfect user experience. For instance:An integrated stock library — no more hopping around to Getty or Shutterstock.Tools to edit images and designs. If Canva doesn’t offer it natively, they have an app marketplace that covers a broad range of other use cases.On-demand printing — bringing your designs to your door, with free delivery.Sharing and collaborating — no more exporting and using tools like Drive of Dropbox.And third, Canva is obsessed with listening to their users and evolving their product in response to their changing behaviors. Here’s their Chief Product Officer and co-founder, Cameron Adams, to show you how.Building a good product or service is not a one-and-done effort. You need to be constantly listening to your community and coming up with new, imaginative ways of evolving your product or service to meet their needs (and defy their expectations).Take what has happened over the last 2 years: the COVID-19 pandemic has totally changed the way we (and many others) do business forever. […]We saw the world’s accelerated transition into a remote world of work as an opportunity to evolve our product to support our community. We noticed traditional ways of communicating and consuming information were changing, and teams and organizations were looking for more asynchronous tools to help facilitate communication, collaboration, and the breaking down of silos. We shifted all our time and energy into creating a suite of new workplace products and features such as Docs, Websites and Whiteboards, and features including Talking Presentations, real-time collaboration, comments and notifications to help them adapt to this new way of working.So by (1) covering a ton of design use cases, (2) vertically integrating across all value stages, and (3) always evolving their product to meet users needs, they’ve created one very sticky ecosystem.Now, what good is a sticky ecosystem if you’re not making money with it?Monetization: Canva’s free → paid conversion strategy (L7)Canva’s monetization strategy simple. Offer extensive free plans, help people see value upfront, and back the product to engage and retain people for long enough so they convert themselves into paid customers that are less likely to churn.When going after a large total addressable market of consumers — free plans are a key acquisition strategy.Once Canva has their engaged base of users set up, it’s then about segmenting them and finding the people that have a higher willingness to pay. From here, they can focus on delivering extra value to those segments. For example, they realized that SMB marketing teams were their sweet spot, turning their main Product-Led Sales playbook into a domino effect strategy (i.e converting individual users into teams). They lean into this by dropping well-placed paywalls on features like premium templates, brand guides, and advanced collaboration to nudge people using Canva on single-player mode to shift into multi-player mode.Now, while they have paywalled features and obviously want as many people as possible subscribing —they do this very unobtrusively.In an interview with Canva’s Product Growth Lead, he says that the main way they actually drive this segment of people to their premium offering is to “generally just let it happen”, because they’ve found that the people who use the product more frequently organically land on the paywalls sooner, have the highest conversion rate, and lowest churn rate.He goes on to say:The question is, how irreplaceable is your product before you add that friction [of a paywall]? A lot of companies tend to get that balance wrong because there is always this perceived need to add the paywall sooner and get 5% of user paying today, vs waiting 3 months and getting 10% of users converting later.But this can be modeled out quantitatively — if users get paywalls to soon, maybe you can convert a fraction of them upfront and get that revenue now, but if you invest in making a habit out of them and delay that gratification to a point where the product is an integral part of their lives, and you let them arrive there organically after using the product more — a lot more users will opt into paying for your product.— Anshul Patel, Product Growth Lead at CanvaA great example of another consumer app that nails this balance is Spotify, who has a 46% conversion rate. I remember when I switched over from Apple Music back in 2018. I was broke and was more than happy to stick to the free plan. At first, I was okay with only 6 skips an hour, or whatever it was. At first, the ads were peppered in occasionally. But as the weeks passed and Spotify became part of my everyday, the ads became more frequent and more annoying.Eventually I paid. But if they’d made the free experience too gated (and therefore less enjoyable), I may well have churned.Canva strikes this balance well. Most people who’ve never “designed” before would be very hesitant to pay too early. So Canva lets them build habits and backs the downstream conversion.As an side: Canva has gradually also moved upstream, trying to get more enterprise customers. And with enterprises come sales people. This addition of a sales-led motion onto of a product-led one is very common. If you’re a PLG founder wondering what this might look like, there’s a podcast interview with John Eitel from Canva who gets into everything you need to know about adding a top-down motion to a bottom-up, product-led foundation.And now we get to the deepest level of the iceberg — getting your users to bring you more users.Creating a growth loop (L8)We’ve spoken about word of mouth already and how Canva facilitates this with one-click publishing, etc. We’ve also just touched on teams…where there’s obviously an invite mechanism here. Both of those have a flywheel effect. But let’s look at something else in the works that Canva has setup. 🧐At face value, you wouldn’t think Canva is a marketplace.But under the hood, they’ve actually created a content marketplace that introduces a very neat flywheel unique to a marketplace business — supply driving demand.We covered this in our deep dive on Etsy. Here’s an excerpt:Etsy enabled their supply to drive demand — something many platforms and marketplaces, including DoorDash, Cameo, Behance, Product Hunt and Substack have done.Sellers were doing their own grassroots marketing, and that became a big growth driver. Etsy pushed sellers to promote their shops to their communities in order to drive growth of their shops, which in turn drove growth of the marketplace overall.—Nickey Skarstad and Dan McKinleyNote — regardless of the type of product or business, if you create a growth loop, you’ve got a sustainable engine to drive growth.How Etsy GrowsWhile that visual is Etsy-specific, you can imagine it works them same way when pro designers can come in and list their templates/designs to make passive income.And that’s the Canva PLG iceberg.SubscribeTo summarize some action items to help you get your own iceberg in motion, here is a great visual by Kyle Poyar, Partner an Open View and author of Growth Unhinged.The next driving force behind Canva’s growth is content, which has helped them build “a backlink empire”.Content and winning at SEOContent is the foundation of customer acquisition. If you get content marketing working, then you are able to retarget people. You are able to build lookalike audiences on different channels. If you’re creating great content, it builds links, which brings your domain authority up.You can write more content and then you can collect more emails and optimize your conversion rate from there, but everything starts with content first. Look at a lot of media companies – they’re building agency services divisions now. It’s easier to build an audience first, and then from there you can start to branch out into other areas.— Eric Siu, CEO, Single Grain, Inside Intercom podcastCanva is an excellent example of a company that’s used content marketing to build brand and drive real results using an inbound marketing funnel. At the heart of their strategy sits this quote by Silicon Valley marketer, Regis McKenna:“The best marketing is education.”All of Canva’s content is around helping users create better designs on Canva.But content is a massive term. In our deep dive on Intercom where we looked closely at content-driven growth, I wrote this:At the highest level — content can be broken up based on (1) what you’re trying to optimize for, and (2) how the content is getting created.What: SEO value, or Virality.How: Is your team creating it, or are users creating it?Here is the landscape broken up into quadrants again.Adaptation of graphic by Lenny RachitskyLooking at where Canva sits in that quadrant, we can see that their content is created by employees and optimized for SEO.This strategy, dubbed by Lenny Rachitsky, is called Editorially-Generated SEO-Optimized (EGSO). People on the Canva team create content with the goal of ranking higher for certain keywords. Besides Canva, this helps drives the growth of companies like Ahrefs, Intercom, and HubSpot.And in short, Canva succeeds here by:Creating value-adding content to help user build design skills (educate) and get the most out of the product;Solution-focused SEO using a Jobs-To-Be-Done intent strategy (AKA Jobs-based marketing);Building a scalable backlink program (driving domain authority) via active outreachStaying on top of cultural trends and creating content to remain relevantStrategy 1: Value-adding ContentAll of Canva’s content — from their blog, articles, and design school — is focused on education, and either making people feel either more confident to create their first design, or inspiring them to develop their skills and push how they use the tool. This helps reduce friction in their market of “amateur/consumer designers) and build Canva’s brand.The takeaway?Get your content to:Help people get their desired job/task done better and fasterEducate — help build skillsHelp people get more out of your product (maximize the value)Strategy 2: Content that matches user intentSimply, search intent is the purpose of a user’s search.When you type something into search, Google makes assumptions about what you’re trying to find (your goal), and serves you what they think are the most relevant results.And how well you understand search intent as part of your content strategy impacts your ability to rank and whether the people that come to your pages are satisfied with your content.Canva uses a goal-related and solution focused keyword strategy for SEO. They focus on what their users are trying to achieve (i.e make a logo), and then connect them to a specific solution they're looking for on a dedicated landing page (i.e a free logo maker).The keywords they use are all based on jobs you can accomplish with the product — paving the way for high conversion rates because they do an excellent job at bringing users to content that is super relevant.Strategy 3: Building a backlink programBacklinks are all the inbound links to your content. The more people that drop in URLs to your stuff, the higher you rank on search. But…Getting backlinks doesn’t happen overnight.It’s a process that requires long-term investment if you want it to pay dividends in organic traffic. The landing pages created by Canva to rank for transactional queries like “infographic maker” or “certificate templates” haven’t picked up all those backlinks by chance. Canva has intentionally invested in these pages to capture backlinks from third parties such as bloggers and journalists.Canva has developed a team of outreach specialists who identify content that mentions things like “invitations,” “posters” or “digital marketing tools.” Then they reach out to the creators.— Foundation Inc, The Canva Backlink Empire: How SEO, Outreach & Content Led To A $6B Valuation☝️FYI, that’s a backlink I just gave — making that article more visible in search.By being very intentional about getting more backlinks, Canva has come to dominate SEO.Strategy 4: Staying on top of consumer trendsCanva creates content in response to new demand, keeping them relevant and always in the conversation, and creating new lead magnets around the zeitgeist.The rise of remote work around the world led to a massive increase in the adoption of Zoom. Teleconferencing software was one of the most popular SaaS industries during the initial wave of COVID-19.At first glance, it doesn’t seem like Canva would benefit much from the rise of telecommuting and remote work—but they did.The increased demand for Zoom resulted in the increased demand for custom Zoom backgrounds. Take a look at this Google Trends track for the query “Zoom Background”:When demand spiked, Canva reacted by developing a new vertical dedicated to Zoom backgrounds. They spun up new landing pages to match search intent, and they even went to Product Hunt to drum up some interest. How startup-like.And that’s the high-level view of how Canva is using content and SEO to grow. The last driver of growth we’ll look at (very briefly) is how Canva is expanding internationally.Going global → localization & partnershipsIn the 5th edition of 5-Bit Friday’s, I wrote this while looking at the growth machine that is MrBeast (the worlds biggest content creator):Cast the widest net, catch the most fish.A large part of his success can be attributed to his global expansion strategy, which relies heavily on localization. Simply put, this is the process of tailoring content to the expectations, habits, and needs of a specific market. This can be anything from translating text into different languages to using culturally-relevant references and humor.Localization doesn’t simply mean translating the words in your videos—it’s about understanding the nuances of different cultures and how to appeal to them. And it’s a strategy that has paid off big time for MrBeast.Jimmy has localized this by creating separate channels for different languages.MrBeast’s success story shows us that localization is a powerful tool for expanding the reach to foreign markets and driving global revenue. His empire has exponentially grown thanks to his ability to connect with international audiences on a local level.When you create content that is relevant and relatable to your target audience, you build an emotional connection with them that goes beyond language barriers. You create a bond that can lead to lifelong customers and fans. The great thing about localization is that you don’t need to start from scratch in every market—you can adapt your existing content to fit the needs of different cultures.— Phase, What Brands Can Learn About Global Reach from the Best-Paid YouTuberWith Canva, it’s very clear that international expansion is a key part of their growth. They’ve invested heavily in localization, as well as building in-country growth teams.Today, they’re in 190 countries and the platform is available in 100 languages. And with each new country/language Canva focused on supporting, their total addressable market got bigger.Here’s Cameron Adams talking about localization at Canva:The first version of our product was something that we were proud of, but it was also only something that you could use if you spoke English. Something that played a massive role in our early growth was making Canva a tool that anyone in the world can pick up. This is often phrased in two different ways: internationalization and localization. Very broadly speaking, internationalization is about the nuts of bolts of offering your product in different languages, whereas localization is about making it appropriate for every users’ context and culture.For us, it’s how we think about expanding into new global markets by building hyperlocal products — ones that are not only available in different languages but have culturally relevant and engaging features and content libraries that feel truly local. This creates a really powerful network effect where word-of-mouth and social sharing are some of our largest growth drivers, helping us build a strong community of Canva advocates across the globe — many of whom then create and grow build their own Canva communities.Curious on how to start your own localization strategy? Check this out. 🌎— Jaryd ✌️Thank you Jaryd for an amazing breakdown of Canva.You can find more of Jaryd’s writing on the growth models powering companies like OpenAI, Etsy and Stripe by subscribing to his weekly newsletter.Until we meet next week,Ali Abouelatta

Hey Frens 👋,Over the past two years of writing this newsletter, I believe I stumbled upon a framework to articulate (most) go-to-market strategies.I found that a GTM strategy often starts with a deliberate tradeoff. This tradeoff  empowers the company to build leverage over its competitors. With the right tradeoff and leverage, companies generate differentiated value that they harness to generate user (and later on) business impact. Like all good strategies, a go-to-market strategy starts with a tradeoff and ends in profits.A good example would be Apple. If I wanted to describe their GTM, I’d say something along the lines of By focusing [on 4 core products][instead of 15], Apple was able to [ship products more frequently] that allowed it to [make mistakes and learn from them faster than competitors] resulting in [frequent innovations] that lead to [a strong beloved brand] which, overtime, translated to [pricing power]There are a few details to hammer out, but we’re onto something here.Talk soon,Ali Abouelatta (@abouelatta_ali)

Hello Frens 👋,I am 8 short days away from wrapping up my Masters's degree; I am keeping it short today!OverviewCompany: LinkedinGoal: Get early users engagedLevers: Insight → We’re all status-seeking monkeysTrust me, not the biggest Linkedin fan either.But let’s rewind to 12 years back when Reed Hoffman sent out an email to 350 of his closest friends in the valley and asked them to join a new professional networking website he was working at.Problem with a social network like Linkedin, with no critical mass, there is little to no value for me joining.Linkedin needed to artificially create some value for people for early users and engage with the product. Even if that value was just temporary.The solution: Gamified StatusMore connections you have, the bigger the network icon on your profile, the more “networked” you are. This feature turned the platform into a status game for the few hundred (or even thousands) of people using it.Value signed, sealed, and delivered (at least until they got to critical mass!)Until we meet next Tuesday,Ali Abouelatta

SubscribeI will share more on my long hiatus next issue!Today I’ll be walking through the maze of GTM motions! A GTM motion is the answer to two questions:How do people hear about your product?Why do they buy it?And the answers are correlated. In the two flowcharts below, I use reasons consumers adopt a new solution to arrive at the most commonly utilized channel, based on my research of 120+ 🦄 and public companies.For High-intent CustomersIf you are building something people already know they need#1 Produce discoverable ContentIdeal for: If the customer is high intent, actively searching the internet for a solution & is frustrated by the lack of a viable solution for their needsExamples:Zapier: Zapier found its first customers by scouring tech forums for people interested in integrations that were not officially supported.Gemini: Gemini took off by posting in crypto circles and communities about being the first fully licensed and compliant bitcoin and (soon after) ether exchange worldwide. Serious banking clients had no alternatives. [Source]#2 Create a Super-fan by over-servicing one customer at a time.Ideal for: If the customer is high intent, not actively searching for a solution & requires a complex nuanced solution for their particular use-case.Examples:Vanta: Christina(one of the co-founders) heard that the Segment team was struggling with SOC-2 compliance. She proactively sent the team a spreadsheet outlining steps to take to ensure compliance [Source]Substack: Hamish (one of the co-founders) knew that Bill Bishop (a renowned internet writer) wanted to create a subscription for his publication so he & the team @ Substack worked maniacally close with Bill to create v1 of the product [Source].Check: Got the “idea” from their first client, Homebase, who wanted to offer payroll but would not dare touch it because of how complicated and expensive payroll is. They worked together to produce the first version of Check [Source].#3 Hack a distribution channelIdeal for: If the customer is high intent, not actively searching for a solution & the offering is straightforwardExamples:Whatsapp: Founders kept changing the name of the app so it will be featured in the "What's new" section of the app store with every update [Source]Tiktok: Appended “for Facebook & Instagram” at the end of the app name on the app store to get discovered by people looking for Facebook or Instagram. [Source]Paypal: Created bots that reached out to eBay sellers pretending to be real customers and insisting on paying only via PayPal. [Source]#4 Fish on ForumsIdeal for: If there are many alternative solutions and there is little to no lock-in to adapt a new offering.Examples:Postman: Postman was introduced to the world as a StackOverflow reply - a lightweight tool that Abhinav(cofounder) thought might help developers test and debug APIs in a much more productive manner. [Source]Veed: Founder answered over 100 questions on Quora about video editing software. [Source]Ahrefs: Bought Ads in targeted forums for SEO specialists and marketers. [Source]For Low-Intent CustomersIf you are building something people don’t know they need yet!#5 Cold Outreach [w/ a hook]Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent, there are many alternative solutions and adapting a new solution is a pain.ExamplesZoom: After reaching out to Stanford University, Eric (Founder of Zoom) entered Zoom in a competitive bid with other more established industry players. Zoom won by offering a more reliable product at an affordable price. [Source]TripActions: Ariel sold TripActions by reaching out to large-enterprise CFOs/CXOs offering their companies the ability to save money on company travel by leveraging the unique TripActions employee rebate program. [Source]HingeHealth: Reached out to Fortune 500 Benefits Execs of blue-collar heavy companies offering a solution to take over the headache of managing MSK (a back chronic disease) for their employees. [Source]#6 Launch somewhere [& get PR — Optional]Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), the market is dominated by legacy players, and your offering is self-serve.ExamplesNotion: Notion’s launch on product hunt and smaller, more targeted channels resulted in the big PR wave, likely due to the unique use case the product enabled (multi-player + single-player productivity). [Source]Twilio: Twilio launched on Techcrunch after an angel investor used the service to prank Michael Arrington, the co-founder of Techcrunch. [Source]Fast: Fast had a massive launch predicated on the company’s build-in public movement that garnered much attention from high-profile investors and influencers in the venture capital space. [Source]#7 Warm Outreach [Sell relationship or credibility]Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), the market is dominated by legacy players, and your offering requires integration or infrastructure work.ExamplesWorkday: According to the Founder, Workday's earliest customer bought the friendship, not the software. They were mostly midsized companies where the founder knew the CEOs personally [Source]Charli HR: The founder visited initial customers, manually onboarded them, and built a great relationship with them. He then ask them to tell a friend - that’s how they got from 5-10 customers to 20-30 pretty fast! [Source]—Also ideal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives) and the market is not yet established.Examples:DataRobot: DataRobot got its first customers by warm intros, selling a data-science-in-a-box platform backed by the credibility of its founders. [Source]#8 Embed yourself in the community [authentically]Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), the market is not dominated by legacy players 🦕 and the offering has a niche appealExamplesGithub: Gained traction from founders being heavily involved in the ruby on rails community and offering a headache-free way to host git projects (there was a decent overlap between Ruby on Rails communities and early-git fanatics) [Source]Coinbase: Brian (founder of Coinbase) offered members of varies crypto communities 0.1BTC for feedback on the product.Snackpass: Similar to Facebook, Snackpass grew like 🔥 by infiltrating on-campus communities and offering a new form of communication within the community (through Snackpass gifts) [Source]#9 Grab attention [on the streets]Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), the market is not dominated by legacy players 🦕 and the offering is geographically constrained.ExamplesNeighbor: Neighbor used flyers to spread the word about the product. To get people’s attention, they paper clipped a dollar bill with a note saying ‘this is the first dollar you’ll make renting out your space on neiybor.com [Source]GoPuff: Gopuff grabbed many 👀👀 by offering a “one-stop puff shop” for pot and tobacco smokers, delivering equipment like hookahs, vaporizers, grinders, and rolling papers for late-night orders on the Drexel University campus. [Source]Thursday: The dating app Honeypot (now Thursday) got its first users by placing whiteboards with quirky messages around the streets of London. [Source]Richard Baker @bakerpicturesWhen you see something rather decent in the City then learn it's a PR stunt. No-one has cheated anyone and love endures @honeypot_dating 12:36 PM ∙ Aug 8, 20197Likes1Retweet#10 Building in PublicIdeal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), the market is not dominated by legacy players 🦕 and the offering has a wide appeal.Examples:Buffer: Leo Wildrich (cofounder) wrote 150 guest posts in the first 9 months of running Buffer. [Source]DesignJoy: Brett (creator) regularly shared his progress on indiehackers.com, a well-known community for indie makers.Pave: Employees were encouraged to share industry-wide salary stats (the main company offering) on Linkedin, which garnered a lot of attention. #11 InfluencersIdeal for: If the customer is low-intent (not actively searching for alternatives), market is not dominated by legacy players 🦕 and the offering has a wide appeal.Examples:Spotify: Founders asked music bloggers to beta test the MVP. The product was impressive enough in one particular aspect: speed. This gave bloggers an interesting angle to write about.Canva: Melanie Perkins (cofounder) aggressively reached out to graphic design influencers to find some win-win scenarios to get influencer power behind her design-in-a-box solutionMedium: Ev Williams (who cofounded Twitter before Medium) tapped his network to get influencers as early adopters of the product. President Obama was amongst this cohort of influencer early adopters [Source]—Also Ideal for: If the customer is low-intent and the offering is a consumer product in a new emerging category.ExamplesLinkedin: Reid Hoffman (also ex-COO Paypal) utilized his network of influential people in the Tech Space to kickstart LinkedinProduct Hunt: Only technology heavy-hitters (bloggers and influencers) were allowed to hunt products on the site to maintain a high-quality bar and drum up interest in the site.Step: Step, the Kid-focused neobank penned a deal with the #2 followed TikToker: Charli D-Amelio, to invest and promote the product. [Source]#12 Full Blown PRIdeal for: Low Intent customers for products with a strong social mission 🌳🌞.ExamplesTelegram: Durov (who also created the “Facebook of Russia” and had a very public altercation with the government ) started Telegram as a revenge business that stood for user privacy and against government surveillance. Hey: The Hey email client launched with a full Manifesto that stood for user privacy and control. [Source]I am open sourcing my full research here with 100+ more examplesUntil we meet next Tuesday,Ali AbouelattaSubscribe

Hello Frens 👋,Welcome back to this week's issue of First 1000. A few weeks ago, I asked you about how to improve First 1000 (and thank you to everyone that participated in the survey). Many pointed out the idea of having more actionable pieces on getting your first 1000 customers. I intend to do so brings with today's topic: 53 ideas to get your first  customers.Ideally, this issue would serve as an inspiration to find novel ways to attract your first 10, 100, or even 1000 customers. The best-performing growth tactics are often ones that no one (or few) have explored before. Gimlet Media's Startup podcast is a great example. Mid-day Snacks did something similar with an IG Live show around building their company live.An easier tool to sellZumper, a rental Marketplace, created a tool to help brokers and landlords to create and upload a listing to all the top 5 rental marketplaces with one click. Two years later, they had over 80% of all live rental listings in NYC & SF.Irrelevant Cool StuffKapwing, a video editing startup, created a site called Firemap. Firemap is an interactive web app that helps people who evacuated fires see the status of their homes via satellite images. They hosted the app on their domain and got featured in several local newspapers. The company got a nice Google ranking bump as a result.A Video PitchSmart Nonsense does an outstanding job here. Take a page out of the playbook they used to land Ali Abdaal (a famous YouTuber) and Synthesis School as their clients 👇🏽.Henry Belcaster 🧠 @HenryBelcasterYOU'RE DOING IT ALL WRONG @synthesischool !!!

@anafabrega11 @chrismanfrank 5:31 PM ∙ Oct 19, 2021217Likes8RetweetsTwitter botsYarn used Twitter bots to generate over 500,000 impressions for their movie clip search engine. Along the same line, Mixpanel created a script to follow the followers of people writing about the problem they’re addressing. They got 100s of accounts from this tactic.SwagAtlassian founders gave out 15 to 20 cases of Atlassian-labelled beer to attendees at the JavaOne conference.A Tiktok videoSnack, a new dating app, got over 150,000 views by creating this Tiktok video explaining the why behind its product.FlyersUber distributed flyers in front of events, metro stations, and college campuses to attract early adaptors. Also, Groupon distributed flyers with QR codes in front of early vendors on the platform.An ambassador programThe ambassador program helped Snackpass launch on 10 campuses and took them to over $10m in GMV.A newsletterLadder scaled their remote jobs newsletter to “tens of thousands” of subscribers before launching their product. Their first 1000 users all came from the newsletter.A lot of ContentA good resource for creating Content is this presentation from Leadpages. The presentation explains how they used content marketing to grow from 0 to 16,000 customers in under a year.List company onF6s (for B2B)Low effort potential high return place to list your company is F6s. Over 4 million founders use F6s to get discounts on software. BetalistBetalist is a platform to find early adaptors. Front's first 50 customers came from listing on the forum.ThingTesting (for DTC)ThingTesting is glassdoor for DTC brands. Get early adopters (testers) & reviews for your brand by putting your product on the website.Product HuntProduct Hunt receives over 100,000 daily website visits. Loom got over 3,000 users from their product hunt launch.Capiche (for B2B)Capiche is a community-led platform that offers price transparency and reviews on SaaS products.Capterra (for B2B)Over 5 million business software buyers use Capterra to discover & evaluate the software. I found customer.io through Capterra. I’m now in love with customer.io.KickstarterLambda School, Allbirds & Peloton found their early supporters by running Kickstarter campaigns.BetaboundIf everything else fails, Betabound is a good starting point to find early adopters. They have decent traffic sitting at around 50,000 visitors a month. Post OnBlindBlind is an anonymous community for tech professionals. Fractional got 2,000+ leads after posting their idea on the platform.Source: Consumer StartupsCompetitor's product forums (for B2B)Zapier found their early adopters by scanning product forums for people requesting the feature they were solving for and leaving a comment directing people to the Zapier website.Indie HackersProspects, Virtual Mojito, Dorik all got their first 100+ users by building their companies in public on Indie Hackers.HackernewsBoth Segment & Supabase got 100s of leads from posting (their-then MVPs) on Hackernews and asking the community for feedback.RedditDiscord got their first customers from doing a live demo of the product in a gaming subreddit.QuoraAnswering questions on Quora in your domain is a low-effort yet time-consuming way to find early users. Anand from CB insights did a great job leveraging Quora to create awareness for his company (without getting banned).Discord“In one month, we launched the website and went to other gaming Discord groups to tell them about this new site we built. We got a ton of traffic just from other Discord groups without spending anything on marketing." - Brian, Cofounder of E-PalLinkedinLinkedin is one of the few social media platforms where you can still get a sizeable organic reach. Wonsulting founders build the company on top of actively posting on Linkedin.Go ToMeetupsDigitalOcean got its first 50 customers by demoing in front of a New York tech meetup. Similarly, Github got its first users from demoing the product at Ruby on Rails meetups.TradeshowsEtsy and Nike got their start at Trade shows. Etsy visited one or two trade shows every weekend to recruit sellers. At the same time, Nike relied on the biggest trade show of the year (The National Sporting Goods Association Show) to introduce their athletic footwear.Client's offices (for b2b)At 7 am every morning, Bloomberg visited the Merril Lynch office and offered coffee (or tea) to people reading the newspaper. Merrill Lynch became his first enterprise client.Pitch CompetitionsTrello got their first customers by presenting (revealing) the product at Techcrunch Disrupt. They got over 130,000 website visitors over the following 48 hours.Conferences (for b2b)Kismet and Twitter got their big breaks by at SXSW (South By South West).Partner WithComplementorsSpeeddate got most of their first 2,000 using the live chat app Meebo and embedded their app on the service.Alcove got most of their first early listings from owners for their co-living startup by partnering with property management firms."NewslettersUdemy's first course was in partnership with Startup Digest, a newsletter that had over 50,000 subscribers. CommunitiesMatter, the read-it-later app, found their first users by partnering with communities.  These include The Interintellect (run by Anna Gat). Progress Studies (run by Jason Crawford) & The Long Now FoundationInfluencersBefore GamingFrog launched, they spent 3 months creating Content around Fifa and partnered with a Fifa Influencer on Launch day. They snagged 1,000+ users on launch day.BlogsPinterest hosted “Pinterest bloggers” events in the early days.  They invited Local bloggers, pampered them, and talked about everything Pinterest.Reach out toPotential users on Twitter Figma found their first users by cold emailing influential designers they found on Twitter.Previous colleagues (for b2b)Open Lowcode got their first 100 users from the founder getting his day-job colleagues to try the app.ReportersTransferwise cold-emailed Techcrunch to cover their startup, the article landed it over one thousand sign-ups.Cold leadsGumroad, Grab, Alibaba and BuyMeACoffee got their first users through cold emails.Organize Pop-upsHoneypot (now Thursday) got their first users by placing whiteboards with quirky messages around the streets of London.Richard Baker @bakerpicturesWhen you see something rather decent in the City then learn it's a PR stunt. No-one has cheated anyone and love endures @honeypot_dating 12:36 PM ∙ Aug 8, 20195Likes1RetweetHackathons (for b2b)Monzo only gave out demo cards to their Neobank to people who participated in the company-organized hackathons. Hackathons gave them a 24-hour window to pitch potential early users instead of the 7-second someone might spend on their landing page.PartiesTinder & Bumble got their start by organizing parties for sororities where attendees needed to download the app to get in.Community Events"We started hosting community events for people in our target audience. This helped us because it allowed us to build credibility and our brand instantly, and it gave us an in-person audience for user testing and research." - Rachna Govani, CEO and Cofounder of Foodstand✨More things to explore ✨Create a Course on:Besides Lambda School I am yet to see a company that started as a course. There may be an untapped opportunity here to develop a long-lasting relationship with early adopters.Maven: To create cohort-based coursesThinkific: To create courses with your branding.Teachable: One Stop Shop to create online courses and coaching services.Udemy: The original course creation platformBuild a Personal Brand on:It’s easier to build an audience on new social media platforms than established ones. Some suggestions on emerging apps to building an audience onDiamond App: A web3 TwitterPopparazi: A friends-first photo-sharing appCallin: A social podcasting appRacket: If Tiktok were an audio company, it would be RacketClosing ThoughtsThis is a guide. Not an instruction manual. Use this issue as a starting point to get the creative juices flowing. And if you found it helpful, consider sharing it on Slack, Twitter, or Linkedin. I spent goodness knows how many hours researching this piece, so it would be nice if a few more people read it.ShareFurther (highly recommended) reading:How the biggest consumer apps got their first 1000 customers - Lenny RachitskyHow today's fastest-growing B2B businesses found their first ten customers - Lenny RachitskyLaw of shitty Clickthrough - Andrew ChenDo Things that don't scale - Paul GrahamThis is it for today.See you next week 😉.Ali AbouelattaThanks for reading First 1000! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work.Subscribe

Hello Frens 👋,Today I’m bringing back one of the first issues published for First 1000 from the archives. It’s the story of StripeLet’s start from the very very beginningThe reigning champ…the notorious geek…the one…the only….*deep voice* PATRICK..🥁🥁..COLLISOOOOOOONIn 2005, sixteen-year-old Patrick Collison (Patrick is the cofounder of Stripe) did what many high school nerds do and participated in the Young Scientist Of The Year competition. Unlike in other parts of the world, where people build volcanos and stuff, this competition was the shit in Ireland….like many notable tech breakthroughs came out of there. Okai..so why is that important 🤷‍♂️?Patrick won the competition, but in retrospect, for someone who built a $95b+ company in his twenties (and early thirties now 👴🏼)…that should come as no surprise. The important bit was that during this competition, Patrick first encountered Common Lisp (a dialect of the Lisp programming language), and one of the biggest Lisp fans on this planet is Paul Graham.Throughout his time in the competition, Patrick spent a lot of time contributing to Lisp. As a young teen, he leveraged it to build his app “Isaac” (his entry to the competition). Isaac is what we would call today a chatbot….in 2005, chatbots weren’t a thing….and building one with some basic machine learning running in the background was enough to grant him the winning Prize.Patrick moves to the US to attend MIT (2007)Not what Patrick was doing at MITAfter winning the competition, Patrick was admitted to MIT at 17, 1.5 years before finishing high school. 🙀 (talk about being smart). His brother John, who is two years younger, was on his “activation year.” Activation year is an Irish concept where students take a year off between middle and high school to explore…well life. Students are expected to get some work experience, or travel or contribute to society in some shape or form…because there is more to life than just your grades (as a student…I approve of this message🧑🏽‍⚖️).Moving back to IrelandIn his “activation year,” John started tinkering around with the idea of creating a better eBay. The idea was to create a mix of Wikipedia and eBay. Patrick being a good brother, decided to lend him a hand. After the first quarter of his freshman year at MIT, Patrick gained so much conviction in this project that he moved back to 🇮🇪🇮🇪 to be with his little bro and continue working on the project full time and dropped from MIT (technically, he took a leave of absence)Getting into YC and moving to Silicon ValleyEven though Patrick was 17 and John was only 15, they got accepted into the fourth ever batch of YC (W07). The only reason Patrick and John, two teenagers from rural Ireland knew anything about YC was because of Patrick’s involvement with Lisp during his science competition the year prior. Their app “Shuppa” merged with another YC company as soon as they joined. The combined company was named Auctomatic, and the brothers got back to working hard.Auctomatic and becoming teen millionaires (March 2008)Side note: Doge to the moon BABY!The ambition for Auctomatic was to build the next eBay. Still, they started off with tools that help individual sellers on sites such as eBay, Amazon, Overstock, and others manage their listings. In 2008 eBay was all the rave and within a few months of launching, the Auctomatic team got their first acquisition offer. They were young and naive and thought they “had a much larger vision,” so they didn’t entertain it, but over the next 3 months, they got 4-5 more offers and the teens caved in (I guess everyone has a price). They sold the company 11 months in for $5m 🤑.According to media Gossip from 2008, each of the Collison brothers netted around $1.2m from that deal and overnight became self-made teen millionaires.The return to normalIn case you weren’t already feeling bad about yourself (I know I was), let me remind you that John Collison became a millionaire at 15 during his gap year and went back to Ireland to *start* his high school.Patrick, on the other hand, moved to 🇨🇦🇨🇦🇨🇦 to work as the Director of Engineering at “Live Current Media” the public company that acquired Auctomatic. Patrick spent a year in Canada (maybe that was a part of the deal…maybe not…we will never know 🥴). After the year ended, Patrick decided to re-enroll at MIT and officially start his second year. Since he joined the university 1.5 years younger than everyone else…he figured he wasn’t in a real  rush to graduate.Stripe…the first lines of code (October 2009)So at the age of 19, after going to MIT, then back to Ireland, then to SF, then to Canada, and finally back to MIT (gotta respect the hustle), Patrick started working on the first version of Stripe. To be fair, though, he was working on SO MANY DIFFERENT THINGS at that time. After going through the rollercoaster of founding and selling a company in less than a year and encountering a sort of normalcy of being a student, the guy just had to tinker away….I guess MIT was too boring for him. Patrick was working on hacking an offline version of Wikipedia for the iPhone (before Apple allowed apps on the app store) + a better web framework for Common Lisp. During that time, Patrick became obsessed with Slicehost. Slicehost…is hmm…something like AWS…before AWS existed. I mean, AWS was technically available in 2009, but it was nowhere near as user-friendly as it was today. Slicehost allowed developers to set up hosting using a beautiful GUI (at least according to 2009 standards). Patrick used Slicehost for all of his side projects and the guy was absolutely starstruck with it. There wasn’t an “aha” moment for Stripe. Sure creating merchant accounts was hard and archaic at the time…but monetizing side projects wasn’t top of mind for the teen millionaires. It was just this fascination with the new phenomenon of building an abstraction layer around something so boring and complicated- as was the case with Slicehost- ….and turning it into something that is intuitive and easy to use that excited Patrick. He figured he could replicate the Slicehost model for payments.Hacking away at Buenos Aires - Winter Break (Jan 2010)In a parallel universe, John completed his high school back in Ireland and received the highest score ever in the country's history. It should come as no surprise that John got admitted into Harvard, and so the duo were both in the US doing boring school stuff and primed for round 2 of building a company together🥂.*Fake* Patrick hacking away at Buenos Aires.Leading up to the Winter break, the Collison brothers applied and got into YC (again) and officially received their funding of 20k-30k by January 2010. Instead of going through the program…they decided they wanted to "hack at it" away from all distractions in the beautiful city of Buenos Aires @ Argentina.Getting their first userJohn hits deploy shortly before Stripe handles its first production paymentBear in mind, Patrick and John, despite their very young success, still had no freakin clue how the financial industry worked…what they knew was how to code.So what they did was … lie (is it lying if no one asks, though ? ). There was no “financial infrastructure” in any way for the first two years of Stripe. Patrick had a friend working at a payments gateway company…the company’s API was pretty horrific to set up and deal with. So Patrick and John created a set of APIs that were a lot easier to use; he abstracted the whole thing to 7 lines of code that any developer could copy-paste in under 1 minute.On the backend, when someone signed up to Stripe, Patrick called up his buddy, gave him the details and his buddy set up a merchant account for that user. Stripe just turned those 🤮 APIs …into something a bit more comprehensible and faster to implement. It wasn’t a payments company or anything at the time.The first customer of Stripe was a friend of Patrick and John from the early YC days, “Ross Boucher.” Ross was the founder of a Web software development company named 280 North. He also became the first employee at Stripe. In my book, it’s a pretty darn good signal when your first customer leaves their company to join yours after only trying the beta version of your half-baked product.Fun facts:The Powerful analytics screenshot…was actually from plane-related mailing list that Patrick subscribed to…it had nothing to do with Stripe.Their pricing page was “We’re finalizing our pricing right now, we’ll be competitive.”The company at the time was named /dev/payments. There is a whole thread about how they came up with the name Stripe..you should check it out 😁Getting the first 20 users.The subsequent 20 users followed suit...all were other YC companies. There are many arguments about whether you should recruit your first users out of people you know (and risk getting sugar-coated feedback) or recruit people you don’t know (who are just a lot harder to find.)Not only did Stripe lean into people they knew….they were also extremely aggressive about it. As Paul Graham outlined in his essay Do Things that Don’t Scale“At YC we use the term "Collison installation" for the technique they invented. More diffident founders ask "Will you try our beta?" and if the answer is yes, they say "Great, we'll send you a link." But the Collison brothers weren't going to wait. When anyone agreed to try Stripe they'd say "Right then, give me your laptop" and set them up on the spot.” - Paul GrahamPricing as a forcing function.

Feedback is crucial in the early days of any company, especially a company attempting to solve such a complex problem like the one Stripe was after. The right feedback could make your business but the wrong one could detrimental to the company. Getting candid feedback is tough when all your Beta users are your friends and colleagues.

Patrick and John decided to price Stripe during Beta at the most expensive end of the spectrum 5% +$0.5 when all their competitors were charging 2.9%-3.2% + $0.3. This expensive pricing structure ensured 2 things:

 - People who signed up to Stripe and were willing to bear the expensive cost were not incentivized by money. Money creates all sorts of conflicts and may very well attract the wrong customers. You don't want to be building for the wrong audience ever...but especially not in the early days and not in an industry where product decisions are almost irreversible.

 - It also forced the team to build a great product. The more you charge for your product, the higher the customers' expectations are. Having that pressure from customers asking every day if their offering was truly worth almost X2 what the competitors charge, ensured that the only way to keep their customers around was to build a product that was at least twice as good as anything out there (and that was not an easy task considering Paypal was one of their main competitors)The next 50-100 customers.Despite their initial success and raising some money from YC…both John and Patrick went back to school to finish off their sophomore and freshman year, respectively. They looked at Stripe as a side project and it wasn’t until six months after they acquired their first customer that they had enough conviction to pursue this full-time and drop out (yet again).The realization, according to Patrick was something along those lines..“ (we realized that) the economic foundation of the web was really shaky and despite Paypal’s best attempt…they never really got there. The internet is still very young.....still a small fraction of transactions happen online. It’s crazy how manual it is...it’s incredibly hard to transact across borders…. if you are an American you can only buy from American companies and so is the case regardless of where you live. There should be robust reliable economic layer of the internet...and we really felt like we could solve that”As the summer started reigning in and the Collison brothers took Stripe more seriously, they did a few things to begin acquiring customers outside the YC circle.The first thing they did (they didn’t do that but rather Garry Tan, who was a YC partner at the time) was to launch a request for the team on HackerNews. The request was if you need payments on the internet..drop those people an email and they will help you out. By my very unscientific method, this post landed them between 300 and 550 signups on the waitlist. (Stripe had to implement a waitlist because… they had to do all the account creation stuff manually)Swag-on: Every time someone made their first transaction on Stripe, they sent them a Stripe swag kit. (It helped that they had the addresses of everyone signing up handy)Employees: This was not something the brothers planned on. The duo was extremely young (19 & 17) when they founded the company, so every new hire needed to take on a lot of responsibility. Naturally, they leaned into hiring founders. Out of the first 10 employees, 8 of them were founders. If there is one thing you can bet on….it’s that founders know other founders (period)I want to take a moment to say that sending Swag and writing a post on HackerNews is not the almighty-secret-recipe to success ( I am sure you already knew that 🥶). The primary reason it worked for Stripe is that, counterintuitively, selling a payment gateway is much easier than selling the majority of other products (many of which you may be working on). There are a few reasons for that:

- People know that payments is something they have to deal with; it's not a maybe question; it's a "which one" question. Payments is fundamental to every business.

- People associated payments with pain. "Payments for developers that doesn't suck" became the new mantra (As a refresher…when Stripe first started, they were aspiring to be the “Slicehost for payments,” but that messaging didn’t quite stick)

There are a minuscule number of infrastructure products that you need to use regardless of the product you are working on and where the only real alternatives are cumbersome 1997 legacy companies. If you are lucky enough to be working on one of those, then you don’t have to find people that need your product …cuz everyone kinda does (which is 90% of the work). You only need to prove you are better than what's out there. 

In that case, shooting your shot at someone coming across your brand name via a blog post or some swag they saw a random dude wearing at a Hackathon may be your best approach.
But if you are working on a consumer product, you may want to do the exact opposite…and narrow down on tiny concentrated circles of users and acquire the most significant portion of those as you possibly can (see the case studies on Udemy, Slice or Snackpass)Raising money and actually building the product.By the end of the summer, Stripe accumulated around 1000 signups to their waitlist. It's not clear how many of those were in the beta, given that Stripe had no financial infrastructure. If I am to bet my life on it, I would say something like 50-150 users. After the summer of '09 concluded, John and Patrick decided to go full time on Stripe. They raised $2m from whose who in the tech circles… that includes A16z, Sequoia, Elon Musk, and Peter Thiel. Patrick attributed much of their ability to raise this money to Paul Graham, who facilitated many of these intros and was a grand champion of the company. Over the following 14 months, the team laid low and went full-on building mode. They got the appropriate partnerships in place, dealt with regulatory requirements ..etc..etcOn September 29th, 2011….Stripe finally launched to the public.Stripe @stripeWe're really proud and excited to announce that https://stripe.com is now open to the public.7:24 PM ∙ Sep 29, 2011129Likes166RetweetsGetting Customers Post LaunchIn the post-launch era, Patrick and the team started pouring more energy into acquisition:Every month they hosted a Capture The Flag contest (think of it as Minecraft for engineers) at their offices. According to the one friend I talked to that attended one of those…he loved it! Free pizza and drinks were flowing…(and who doesn’t like free food).As the team grew and more people started attending those events, the group began doing meet-ups. If John or Patrick were in another state for one reason or another, they would put together a meet-up event for developers and hackers. In the beginning, these were Capture the Flag competitions, but over time morphed into a more general meet & greet kind of events.As the interest in Capture The Flag competitions grew further. They started hosting them online….thousands and thousands of developers tuned in to solve these challenges every month.Within six months, they started running ads on StackOverflow. For the first year, that was the only channel they used for paid marketing. They also really really leaned into the narrative of “Paypal founders backing the next payment internet company.” See here and hereThe last bit was reviews from internet bloggers. For the most part, those were unsolicited (example, example2) but were a cornerstone to how they acquired customers post-launch, according to a random 2012 interview with Patrick I stumbled upon. I would hate it if the key takeaway here was to host competitions or god-forbid gamify your app. Personally I am an adversary of gamification but that is a story for another day 🙈.   The biggest insight from Stripe's approach, for me at least, has been how they layered in their marketing effort. In most places I have worked in the past, marketing is a one and done exercise. You come up with an idea, put some $$ behind it, measure your performance and then put some more $$$$ behind it (maybe experiment with a few messages along the same theme).   What Stripe did was that they evolved their marketing, adding in more value and complexity as they grew, just as any good product person would do to their core product. Of course, this was possible because their marketing- in the form of these Capture The Flag competitions- was something valuable to the users.   But this is not unique to Stripe. Many companies, especially those in the financial industry, build tools, calculators, or even content as a core part of their marketing. More often than not, those are treated in a "let's see what sticks" manner. They are not nurtured and handled with the same user empathy, and thoughtfulness one would provide their core product. This is what I believe Stripe did differently, and the results do kind of speak for themselves 😁.   Until we meet next week,Ali Abouelatta

Hello Frens 👋I hope you are having a fine day! Today I am (re)launching the First 1000 referral program, and I want to use this issue to celebrate and give my thanks to all the early adopters.The way referrals work at First 1000 is a little bit different. This is why I want to take a moment to explain how the program works because I think it’s really elegant!The MechanicsEvery month, I introduce one reward with just one milestone (hit X to get Y). For instance, in March, people who got 10 or more referrals get a shoutout in the newsletter.The difficulty and reward change every month. April will be a new reward (50+ early decks of now 🦄s). You will need to refer 4 people to get access to it.On the first day of every month, everyone’s referral count is set back to 0. It’s a level playing field for everyone.Why I think this would work?Bet number 1: People won’t get “stuck” on a referral milestone.Using a tiered referral system, it becomes increasingly harder to hit the next milestone (going from 25 referrals to 100 or from 100 to 500 is excruciatingly hard, compared to from 1→5). With my system, since everyone starts from 0 each month and each month’s rewards are different, I am betting people will continue referring 1 member, then 10, then 3, then 5..etc. every month (assuming the rewards offer way more value than the effort required), no one will get stuck in a this-is-just-way-too-hard zoneBet number 2: Sunk cost plays inBy only having one reward each month, people who invested just a little effort to refer 1 or 2 friends will put in the extra effort to get to 5 or 10 (or whatever number is required to get the reward). Otherwise, the 1 or 2 referrals will go to waste when referral counts are reset to 0 at the end of the month.Bet number 3: Urgency plays inNew rewards that change every month create urgency. If someone sees a reward they want, the only way to get it is by hitting the milestone before the end of the month. Otherwise, they’ll miss the boat!Referral DashboardNow that I spilled all my secrets, I would like to take the remainder of this newsletter to shout out everyone who referred more than ten people in March.Thank you to:Klodi who is killing with Crio: a place for animators to showcase their work and provide perks to fans!Jacob who is tinkering away at Zest: a Gen-Z-oriented company teaching youngsters about food in an environment where everything feels like progress. Think Duolingo but for cooking!Babfemi who is working on definitions: a blog about life, creativity, productivity he acquired through the yearsYash who is building Relife: A community of motivated people for building healthy life habits.Mouad who is all about the NFT gameand Sarah who is building an immersive subscription kit for kids and grown-ups to connect over the topics that matter in LIFE. MILLU is live on Kickstarter and is 50% oversubscribed.To everyone listed above, THANK YOU for being early supporters!Until we meet next week, Ali Abouelatta

Hello Frens 👋,Hope you are all fine this Tuesday morning 😃. For me, I am about to go to get my 39th PCR test (& yes the nerves in my nose are long dead) & hop back on a plane to NYC.This week is both light & dense on content depending on how far you will go down the go-to-market rabbit hole.There is surprisingly very little ink spilled on understanding how to take products to market and the few great ones have been buried alive with SEO content farms.Below are the 11 content pieces that have fundamentally shaped my views and understanding of go-to-market since I started writing this newsletter 18 months ago.Whether you are in the process of building a company, working for an early-stage startup, or running a billion-dollar enterprise, these pieces are dense, timeless, and full of insight.Take the time to go through them if you haven’t encountered them in the wild (& if you did maybe this is a nice time for a refresher).The GTM CanonCome for the tool, stay for the network:https://cdixon.org/2015/01/31/come-for-the-tool-stay-for-the-networkThe Law of shitty clickthroughs https://andrewchen.com/the-law-of-shitty-clickthroughs/The New Go-To-Market Playbooks for Digital Health Startupshttps://a16z.com/2021/10/19/the-new-go-to-market-playbooks-for-digital-health-startups/How the biggest consumer apps got their first 1,000 usersLenny's NewsletterHow the biggest consumer apps got their first 1,000 usersHello, and welcome to a free monthly edition of my newsletter. I’m Lenny, and each week I tackle reader questions about product, growth, working with humans, and anything else that’s stressing you out at the office. Send me your questions and in return, I’ll humbly offer actionable real-talk advice…Read more3 years ago · 248 likes · 29 comments · Lenny RachitskyHow today's fastest-growing B2B businesses found their first ten customers?Lenny's NewsletterHow today's fastest growing B2B businesses found their first ten customersHello, and welcome to a free monthly edition of my weekly newsletter. I’m Lenny and each week I tackle reader questions about product, growth, and working with humans, and anything else that’s stressing you out at the office 🤜🤛 P.S. Don’t miss the follow-up to this post…Read more3 years ago · 50 likes · 14 comments · Lenny RachitskyStatus as a service:https://www.eugenewei.com/blog/2019/2/19/status-as-a-serviceSignal as a service:https://julian.digital/2020/03/28/signaling-as-a-service/Building Product:Pricing:https://irrationallabs.com/blog/how-to-price-a-product-using-behavioral-economics/Willingness to Pay: What It Really Means & How to Influence It https://www.profitwell.com/recur/all/willingness-to-pay/Aggregation Theory:https://stratechery.com/2015/aggregation-theory/The strategic way to go to market:https://hbswk.hbs.edu/item/the-strategic-way-to-go-to-marketCalm Alex Tew-land 100,000 users before launch How to get users and grow:I’ll see you next week when I am back at my desk 😉,Ali Abouelatta

Hello Frens 👋,Welcome back! I am trying to make First 1000 a little bit easier to navigate, so I started a tiny directory to help make sense of everything in the archive. Feel free to check it out here.This week, I am going much earlier in my coverage than usual. Together we will be looking into Clay: the personal management system. I was first introduced to Clay by the one and only Mo Amdani from Adapt Ventures. And from the moment I started the beta, I knew this was one of those apps “I didn’t know I needed....until right now.”Obviously, when I got the chance to interview Matt Achariam & Zach Hamed on their 0→1000 journey with Clay I jumped on it.Let me preface this issue by saying: I am a big fanboy of Clay, so as always, take everything I say with a grain of salt!I am super pumped about this one. Let’s get to it!So what is Clay?Clay is meant to be the home for your people. It cultivates all your personal relationships in a single, beautiful, intuitive interface. It is a spin on the personal CRM that we were all promised 20 years back, but a spin that actually works.What makes Clay work— at least for me— (and I have been burnt by half a dozen companies trying to deliver on the same promise) is that:It’s a single source of truth: Clay can connect to your Calendar, Email, Twitter, iMessage, and even Linkedin to extract a broad spectrum of signals on how you interact with peopleIt’s Proactive, not Reactive: Clay makes it stupidly easy to see signals from people in your life, as in who changed their job, who is in the news this week or even something as simple as who changed their Twitter bio(personally love that one).It gets you in the flow: I am in the zone when I am using Clay! Everything is a shortcut away, and Clay is getting better every day at understanding. Just the other week, they pushed an update to auto-generate reminders from notes you write after meeting someone. And it’s these little touches that get me ☺️every. Single.timeI guess the easiest way to describe Clay is a lightweight and magical app that helped me deepen my relationships in ways I did not even know where possible.Acquiring their First 1000 CustomersArtists, not engineers, built Clay. I could feel it every step along the way. And it is this care, love, and attention to detail they poured into the product that took it from 0→1000 and beyond.The two levers I want to explore in their go-to-market are:StorytellingBuilding a product people love1.The lost art of storytellingAs I get closer to my quest to have a better understanding of go-to-market strategies, I am starting to notice a little bit of a trend: many companies, in the very early innings, rally people behind anything but the actual product. (By rallying, I mean get potential customers excited about.)For some, it may be rallying people behind a common enemy (e.g., Facebook for privacy-first apps, Hey v.s. Apple). It may be a launch party (e.g., Hinge). In the case of Clay, they rallied people behind a story.The story (or manifesto) they put up in the early days (which is still around today) was around David Rockefeller and his 100,000 index cards. Many people did not know that David, the patriarch of the third generation of the Rockefeller family until his recent passing, was the black sheep of the family. He was not extroverted and, after coming back from WW2, made it his life mission to be more thoughtful with people.Over 50 years, he gathered over 100,000 index cards with over 200,000 meticulously crafted notes of every person he had met throughout his life. The purpose of these cards and notes was so that David could become a better person, friend, colleague, boss and establish a deeper, more meaningful relationship with people in his life.The story crystallized to potential users what Clay wanted to achieve: to make every one of us a little bit more thoughtful in approaching their relationships and adding a little bit of the David Rockefeller glare to our lives.After Zach and Matt wrote up this beautifully written manifesto of sorts on their website, they pushed it out on Twitter.Zach Hamed @zmhok Twitter, we built the 𝖕𝖊𝖗𝖘𝖔𝖓𝖆𝖑 𝖈𝖗𝖒 we’ve always wanted and would love your thoughts

To explain why, we wrote a post about the world’s richest family and 200,000 index cards

clay.earth/why

Sign up for the waiting list and then come back for the thread  ⤵️clay.earthDavid Rockefeller and His Rolodex of Index Cards - ClayBefore Linkedin, contact books, address books, or the personal CRM, David Rockefeller had 200,000 index cards.3:52 PM ∙ Jan 8, 2019382Likes26RetweetsThe story permeated across the Twitter circles, starting off with Matt and Zach’s close friends and eventually made its way to tens of thousands (maybe even hundreds of thousands I am not entirely sure tbh) of people and a few hundred of those gave in their emails to be the first users of the product.The lost art of building productsThe Rockefeller story was the seed to build early buzz behind Clay. Still, the real magic that kept me and (I presume many people) coming back every day and talking it up every chance I got was the amount of attention to detail, the craftsmanship that went into building this app.In today’s age, a lot of software feels very transactional and business-minded. Every pixel is optimized to get me to spend a tiny bit more money or spend a little more time on the app. Clay feels different. When I used Clay for the first time, I remember that light bulb going on after going through onboarding flow (you know the flow that supposedly shows you around the app but everyone furiously presses skips.) It was the first time in a very long time that I took the time to read every single bit of onboarding. It was beautiful.From that first interaction, I knew Clay was a different bread of apps. It was made by people who cared…a lot! And that energy somehow prevailed through the pixels. I felt the blood, sweat, and tears Matt, Zach, and the team have put into building this.—Building a product like this takes time. It took 2.5 years of close iteration with early customers and testers to nail this product down to even the tiniest detail. But it was well worth it!Having been following the Clay journey for a while now, I witnessed firsthand the building buzz + blow people away with product experience go to market unfold before my eyes, and it was beautiful.And it is not just the product. You can feel the love and effort they put into everything related, from Marketing emails to product updates. I can’t remember the last time I looked forward to reading product updates emails, but here we are!Until we meet next week,Ali Abouelatta


Learn how Kosy was able to rank first on Product Hunt, generating over a thousand new signups to their service in the process. Kosy had a few users before they launched on Product Hunt, but only a small cohort. The majority of their users came from product cards from their launch.  In fact, when they decided to launch on Product Hunt, the main metric that they were interested in was how many signups they’d be able to generate. Ultimately, they picked up over a thousand sign-ups from Product Hunt in the first couple of weeks. To find out how they did it, we chatted to Yanis Mellata from the Kosy team. Here’s how that went down. As soon as we had a version of the product that was getting good feedback from the early adopters we were speaking with, we did our official launch on Product Hunt. Kosy currently has a team of around ten employees, and they put their money where their mouth is by working entirely remotely, without any kind of physical offices. They have teammates in the US, the UK, Belgium and even Ukraine. At the moment, they’re mostly focused on product, and so they predominantly have engineers, quality analysts, UX and UI specialists and a dedicated employee for product and growth. When they decided to launch on Product Hunt, they’d been operating for a few months in stealth mode and had been iterating the product to find out what worked and what didn’t. As soon as they were ready, they officially launched their beta on Product Hunt, with the goal of getting the word out and acquiring new users. We knew we’d be using Product Hunt for nearly three months, and we started spending time preparing for it about a month before the launch. Kosy made the decision to launch on Product Hunt at the same time as they decided to pivot the product, allowing the two strategic decisions to work hand-in-hand. That also gave them around two and a half months between their decision to pivot and their actual launch, which in turn meant that they could get their product as close to perfect as possible. Part of the reason for that was that they didn’t want to lose all of the sign-ups that they gathered due to a poor product or a bad UI. And at the same time as focusing on the product, they also made sure that they updated their landing pages and that the copy was as clear as it could be. As part of the launch process, it was important for Kosy to spend time thinking about all of the different channels that they could have used to acquire new users. They started with a longlist before narrowing it down, running experiments and focusing on four or five, of which Product Hunt was one of the most important. They also assigned different team members to manage each different channel. The most important thing was to make sure that the product was at the most advanced stage possible for the launch. It also acts as a forcing mechanism to only prioritise what is essential For Kosy, it was also important to start building a community, which they worked on in the months leading up to the launch. This included things like creating a newsletter and establishing wait lists. They also launched a number of experiments, like building landing pages for product ideas that they had to gauge interest. On top of building their own community, they took part in external communities, including those focussed on engineering. Many of Kosy’s team members also had followings on their LinkedIn personal accounts. Kosy also collaborated with Ben Lang, who they were introduced to through a mutual friend. Lang is one of the more successful Hunters, and the products that he supports generally perform well. He also provided them with his seal of approval, which added a huge amount of value. Our view was to focus on one Hunter, rather than a lot of them. We didn’t want to dilute our efforts. We could have gone for more, but one was enough for us to hit product of the day. To make the most of launch day, Kosy made sure to reach out to their friends and family throughout the day and to stagger that outreach based on the different time zones. They also constantly monitored their ranking throughout the day to know whether they ought to be launching new initiatives. On top of that, they made sure to monitor the metrics and the usage of the platform, because they knew there’d be a spike and they wanted to make sure that their servers didn’t crash. Because of that, they were able to spot a login bug that only affected a specific subset of users, and they were also able to fix it within just a couple of hours. It helped that they’d also carried out pressure tests the week before. Kosy knew that the Product Hunt algorithm prioritizes launches with large amounts of engagement, and so they had a team member who was responsible for replying to comments and answering questions throughout the launch day. Launch day was very intense. I probably slept for two or three hours that night. It was all hands on deck for everyone. A lot of people try to game the algorithm and get people to create new accounts to vote for them, which is why you can see people’s upvote count go down when the system disqualifies people who aren’t active in the community. Kosy learned that it’s better to focus on reaching out to people who are already a part of the community. Another tip that they have to offer is that it can help to have someone who’s responsible for the mathematics. If you define the number of upvotes that you want, you can figure out how many people need to be contacted for you to reach that number. That also makes it easier to tell whether you’ve got the right channels in place for you to hit those numbers. According to Yanis, one of the key factors behind their success was that they really wanted it and put their heart and soul into it. They also made sure to test their landing pages and their messaging to make sure that people would really like the product as soon as they saw it. He says at the end of the day, the only thing that matters is whether people get excited about your product. We brainstormed a lot of different channels through which we would’ve been able to acquire different users. We went through around a hundred before deep diving on a specific few that we wanted to focus on. Kosy is a virtual space to help teams to be more connected and productive when working remotely. As the world and the workplace have moved to more widely adopt remote working, particularly due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the tools they use haven’t kept up with them. Kosy aims to change that, spearheading a move from a hybrid world with the office at the center to a new world where the majority of interactions take place remotely. For people to continue to be productive when they work, they need a new set of tools that are adapted to their behavior when it comes to working remotely. As always, you can find out more about Kosy by visiting their Product Hunt page or by clicking here to visit their website.  
 
 Subscription implies consent to our privacy policy
 Glenn Harwood founded AlgoDriven when he realized the random pricing decisions for second-hand cars. We spoke to him about his learnings from the company’s four-year journey so far. To find out how it achieved the coveted top spot, GrowthMentor’s Spyros chatted with founder Julien Nahum. If you’re a woman in tech, having a brand like Y Combinator behind you can be a major accelerant. Especially if you’re in the government technology with notoriously slow sales cycles. Read Katherine’s Y Combinator journey. Made with  for the sake of Karma 

 



Unicorn Warrior Brainiac Jan Koum and Brain Acton started WhatsApp as a result of Koum's frequent visits at Alex Fishman’s regular meetings. Russians from the Fisherman's neighborhood frequently visited Alex to eat some pizza and watch movies. Koum was telling them about WhatsApp. He missed calls quite often, and he hated it. He wanted an app to display people's statuses when they couldn't chat on the phone (for example, "On a meeting"). WhatsApp first version, called WhatsApp 1.0, was riddled with faults, and users rejected it. When Apple released push notifications for iOS, Koum opted to release WhatsApp 2.0, which included this capability. People would be now alerted about their friends' status updates. Koum and Acton also exploited an App Store loophole. WhatsApp appeared in the "What's New" list as a "new" app anytime its authors updated its name on the AppStore. They did it over and over, and really boosted WhatsApp user growth. Eventually, WhatsApp first 1,000 users came, and the app remained on top of the Apple's "What's New" list until Apple addressed the glitch. Sometime later, WhatsApp users began using it for instant messaging. That greatly increased WhatsApp's popularity. [source][source] Click here to read 41 other cases of how a billion-dollar business, such as, Discord, Loom, Twitch, and others, got their first customers... Get your"oh sh*t, this might work for us!"moment in the next 5 minutes In the first email: Other than that: (You won't find it anywhere else) Explore Cognitive Biases in Marketing

Hello, and welcome to a free monthly edition of my newsletter. I’m Lenny, and each week I tackle reader questions about product, growth, working with humans, and anything else that’s stressing you out at the office. Send me your questions and in return, I’ll humbly offer actionable real-talk advice. 🤜🤛 If you find this post valuable, check out some of my other posts: How To Know If You've Got Product/Market Fit How to Kickstart and Scale a Marketplace Business How To Get Into Product Management (And Thrive) To receive this newsletter in your inbox weekly, consider subscribing 👇 Considering every startup confronts this question at some point, I was surprised by how little has been written about it. Particularly anything actionable. So I decided to do my own digging. I spent the past month personally reaching out to founders, scouring interviews, and tapping the Twitterverse. Below, you’ll find first-hand accounts of how essentially every major consumer app acquired their earliest users, including lessons from Tinder, Uber, Superhuman, TikTok, Product Hunt, Netflix, and many more. Enjoy! Just seven strategies account for every consumer apps’ early growth. Most startups found their early users from just a single strategy. A few like Product Hunt and Pinterest found success using a handful. No one found success from more than three. The most popular strategies involve going to your user directly — online, offline, and through friends. Doing things that don’t scale. To execute on any of these strategies, it’s important to first narrowly define your target user. Andy Johns recently shared some great advice about this. The tactics that you use to get your first 1,000 users are very different from your next 10,000. A topic for a different post. If you have any additional insights, stories, or feedback to share, don’t hesitate to DM me. Otherwise, let’s dive into the strategies. Key question: Who are your early target users, and where they currently congregating offline? Whitney Wolfe and Justin Mateen would basically run around USC pitching Tinder to sororities and fraternities. The hook of seeing other single people on campus for the first time (and knowing if they’re interested in you) went viral. — Jeff Morris Jr. The very first iteration of DoorDash was a website called paloaltodelivery.com with PDF'd menus of restaurants in Palo Alto. Tony and the team printed a bunch of flyers charging $6 for delivery and put them all over Stanford University. He and the team first wanted to see if there was demand. That was how it all started. A website with PDF menus and flyers. — Micah Moreau We asked everyone on our team to give us their list of contacts at startups and we contacted them to ask their permission to come by with a free Bi-Rite ice cream sundae dropoff for their employees. They basically all said yes, because Bi-Rite is delicious. :) So we arranged a dropoff operation and had teams of staff with insulated bags taking ice cream sundae kits to all of the companies and giving them Lyft credits. — Emily Castor Warren There was a very significant use of street teams early on at Uber. They went to places like the Caltrain station and handed out referral codes. There are stories about how Travis went to Twitter HQ personally and handed out referral codes. — Andrew Chen Evan started showing it to people one on one, giving tutorials, explaining why it was fun, even downloading the app for them. […] Evan was willing to try anything to get users. When he was home in Pacific Palisades, he would go to the shopping mall and hand out flyers advertising Snapchat. “I would walk up to people and say, ‘Hey would you like to send a disappearing picture?’ and they would say, ‘No,’” Evan later recalled.  — How to Turn Down a Billion Dollars, The Snapchat Story by Billy Gallagher Back then, the founding team knew that it would only work if they could find a neighborhood to embrace the idea of a social network for neighborhoods, as well as test it along the way. Choosing the right neighborhood was essential. That neighborhood is known as Lorelei. Nestled close to the Bay on streets shaded by trees, the neighborhood was close-knit and small yet vibrant, with the longest-standing homeowner’s association in the state of California. The community already had some ways to communicate with each other, which was a promising sign. We reached out to board members of the homeowners association, and they were more than willing to hear us out. After an initial conversation, they invited us to present the concept to more residents at their next board meeting. — Sarah Leary Etsy decided to actually go into all these fairs across the United States, having people travel to all these craft fairs and recruit sellers because the sellers would eventually recruit their own buyers to the website instead of just using digital marketing. — Thales Teixeira We did all kinds of pretty desperate things, honestly. I used to walk by the Apple store on the way home. I’d go in and change all the computers to say Pinterest. Then just kind of stand in the back and be like, “Wow, this Pinterest thing, it’s really blowing up.” — Ben Silbermann (Note: This strategy will obviously be less effective while we shelter-in-place 😷)  Key question: Who are your early target users, and where they currently congregating online? Drew created a simple video, demoing the product, and published it on April 2007 on Hacker News with the title "My YC app: Dropbox – Throw away your USB drive. That video brought the first users to the emerging Dropbox. — John Popel There was a secret in the app store. You could make the application name really really long. And the search engine on the App Store gives more weight to the application name rather than the keybookwords defined. So we put a really long application name, "make awesome music videos with all kinds of effects for Instagram, Facebook, Messenger”. And then traffic came from the search engine. That's how we initially got started. — Alex Zhu First ~3k came in from Product Hunt on launch day + 1-2 days after.  3k-20k: Came from early champions at organizations (we tried to build 1:1 relationships with all of them). 21k+: we introduced our referral system ($5 in credits for every coworker you refer up to $50) — Shahed Khan To help us connect further with customers, we brought in Corey Bridges to work on customer acquisition – or, more specifically, on something we jokingly called Black ops. A one-time English major at Berkely, he was a brilliant writer with a gift for creating characters.  He'd realized, early on, that the only way to find DVD owners was in the fringe communities of the internet: user groups, bulletin boards, web forums, and all of the other digital watering holes where enthusiasts met up. Corey's plan was to infiltrate these communities. He wouldn't announce himself as a Netflix employee. Posing as a home theater enthusiast or cinephile, he would join the conversation in communities geared toward DVD fanatics and movie buffs, befriend the major players, and slowly, over time, alert the most respected commenters, moderators, and website owners about this great new site called Netflix. We were months from launch, but he was planting seeds that would pay off...big time. — That Will Never Work by Marc Randolph (Netflix) Solely through guest blogging we’ve acquired around 100,000 users within the first 9 months of running Buffer. Here is more on this number, a bit before we hit the 100,000. It’s been something that was very gradual though. Within the space of around 9 months, I wrote around 150 guest posts. Of course the early ones barely drove any traffic and only very gradually did things improve, I think that’s very important to understand. It will take a while until you can find the right frequency of posting.  — Leo Widrich (Buffer) Key question: Do your friends fit into the target user group? If so, have you invited them yet? Inviting people from our network (mostly former coworkers from PayPal) drove our initial users. We asked all our network to invite their friends, and being startup people who wanted to help us, they obliged, so two-degrees out we probably got to 1k or so users. The takeaway is not to underestimate the power of one's personal referral network and to think deeply about the incentive and mechanics. — Russel Simmons Before the waitlists came personal email invites to our friends, like the one above. — Emily Castor Warren Thefacebook.com went up on Wednesday, February 4, 2004. “It was a normal night in the dorm,” Moskovitz recalled. “When Mark finished the site, we told a couple of friends. And then one of them suggested putting it on the Kirkland House online mailing list, which was, like, three hundred people. And, once they did that, several dozen people joined, and then they were telling people at the other houses. By the end of the night, we were, like, actively watching the registration process. Within twenty-four hours, we had somewhere between twelve hundred and fifteen hundred registrants.” — New Yorker Quora launched in January 2010 with a user base largely composed of D'Angelo's and Cheever's college and high-school friends, meaning there was a lot of early Quora information on the best places to eat in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where Cheever was raised. But they also built a feature into the site whereby users could invite people, and soon their friends from Facebook were summoning people from other startups, and other entrepreneurs. — Wired Reid intentionally seeded the product with successful friends and connections recognizing that cultivating an aspirational brand was crucial to drive mainstream adoption. (The entire company would have been doomed if there had been massive adoption of have-nots, instead of people who were hiring, recruiting etc.) — Keith Rabois We begged and cajoled our friends at other companies to try it out and give us feedback. We had maybe six to ten companies to start with that we found this way. The pattern was to share Slack with progressively larger groups. We amplified the feedback we got at each stage by adding more teams. — Stewart Butterfield So we released the app and I did probably what everyone does–emailed all my friends and kind of hoped that it would to take off. And no one really got it, to be totally honest with you. […] But there was a small group of people that were enjoying it. And those folks were not who I think stereotypically you think of when you think about early adopters. They were folks that I grew up with, people that were using it for regular stuff in their life. You know, “What is my house going to look like? What kind of food do I want to eat?” Things like that.  — Ben Silbermann Key questions:  Does your product rely on UGC? Consider curating the early community. Is your value-prop incredibly strong? Consider throwing up a waitlist. Is your product innately social? Consider relying on existing users to invite new users. It’s been interesting to watch Clubhouse do this via private Testflight: Curation (keeping quality high) Exclusivity (creates FOMO) Quick iteration (no App Store review process) High-quality referrals from initial seed users — Todd Goldberg I think the biggest thing overall was that as we were prototyping and testing [Instagram] we gave it to a few folks who had very large Twitter following. Not necessarily a large following overall, but very large followings within a specific community — specifically, the designer community, the online web design community. We felt that photography and the visual element of what we were doing really resonated with those people. And we gave it to those specific people who a large followings. And because they shared to Twitter, it created this tension, of like “When is this thing launching, when’d do I get to play with it?” and that’s the day when we actually launched, it had that springboard affect. — Kevin Systrom (Instagram) Pinterest started as an invite-only community. The first users were design bloggers Silbermann recruited. He advised these invitees to only extend admission to people they knew with unique ideas and creative minds. The exclusive community grew slowly until 2012 when the site removed the invitation requirement. — Entreprenuer Mailbox, the email inbox management app for iPhone that was released in beta this week, currently has around 700,000 users queuing up for access, at the time of this writing […] It’s ostensibly a mechanism to help Mailbox’s servers manage the tremendous demand put upon them by users, though some believe it’s a marketing ploy designed to increase demand. — Darrell Etherington In the first year of Superhuman, as we were primarily building, we threw up a landing page. It was a terrible landing page, a basic Squarespace thing, that took us all of 2 hours to put together. All you could do on this page was throw in your email address. And when you threw in your email address, you got an automatic email from me, with two questions: What do you use for email today? What were your pet peeves about it? — Rahul Vohra The last thing from our minds when we launched Robinhood, the initial website, was that it would blow up overnight, so we were kind of cavalier in the way we approached it.  [The website] had a description in very simple language saying, "Commission-free trading, stop paying up to $10 per trade." And then there was a button that let you sign up, and then when you signed up, you put in your email, and you would join this wait list where we would actually show you: There's this many people ahead of you, this many people behind you. […] I remember distinctly it was a Friday night. We had been working on the wait list in preparation for our press launch, which would have been, I think, the following Wednesday or Thursday. Everyone goes home, and I wake up Saturday morning, and I open up Google Analytics, and I see something like 600 concurrents on our site, which nobody knew about at that point. I was just like, "What's going on? This is not normal. Something must be wrong." Right? And I'm looking at the analytics — I see a lot of traffic, or the majority of it, coming from Hacker News. And I open up Hacker News, and I see No. 1: "Chinese Land Spaceship on the Moon," No. 2: "Google acquires Boston Dynamics, the Robotics Company," and No. 3 was: "Robinhood: Free Stock Trading." So, first of all, I was like, "Oh man, like No. 3 on Hacker News? This is sort of like every engineer's dream in the Valley, right?  — Business Insider The music streaming service went live in October 2008, and it kept its free service invitation only, something that had been in place whilst it was in the final stages of development prior to public launch. The invitation-only element was a vital part of the platform’s rise. Not only did it help manage the growth level of Spotify, but it also helped create a viral element to the service, with users each having 5 invites at first to share with their friends. — TNW Key question: Who are influencers of your target users, and how could you get them to talk about your product? This is the day-by-day chart for the initial launch. The first public mention of the service I can find is on Evan William's blog late on July 13th, but you can see that even on the 12th there was a mini-boom in registrations. Then Om Malik's post on the 15th really pushed it over the top, with more than 250 people signing up the next day. What I find fascinating is that there were less than 600 people on the service at that point, so it was a very prescient plug. […] A recurring theme is the power of that initial publicity in driving the early users, and the feeling that it was a way to connect with an interesting group of people. Evan's high-profile and Om's endorsement must have been a big help in building that sort of buzz. — Pete Warden Once we identified an influencer, Nathan or myself sent a personal email, inviting them to contribute and linking to the PandoDaily or Fast Company articles, to tell our story. A manual process indeed, but an effective way to recruit good contributors and open lines of communication for future feedback.  — Ryan Hoover The founders picked their first users carefully, courting people who would be good photographers—especially designers who had high Twitter follower counts. Those first users would help set the right artistic tone, creating good content for everyone else to look at, in what was essentially the first-ever Instagram influencer campaign, years before that would become a concept.  Dorsey became their best salesman. He was initially shocked to find out his investment money was going toward an entirely different app than Burbn. Usually, founders pivoted to a new product as a last-ditch effort to avoid going out of business. But Dorsey loved Instagram, way more than he’d ever loved Burbn. When Instagram launched to the public on October 6, 2010, it immediately went viral thanks to shares from people like Dorsey. It reached number one in camera applications in the Apple app store. — No Filter: The Inside Story of Instagram, by Sarah Frier Key question: What’s a unique, compelling, fresh story you could pitch press? The best way to do it is to pick one or two events a year where you can insert yourself into the cultural zeitgeist. For us, one such event was when Mailbox was being shut down. It was the perfect narrative, “I’m over here, come look at my company.” […] I currently have one of the most widely read articles on how to survive an acquisition. It was written in response to the Mailbox shutdown. […] That post ended up on Medium, and was syndicated to qz.com. We were able to insert it into the Zeitgeist. That article probably took me three days of doing nothing else, and another day of shopping it around. So four days all in. But those four days bought north of 5,000 signups. — Rahul Vohra I wrote guest posts on tech publications (like this article on FastCo) to drive awareness. In the early days, press was effective in driving adoption. The same people that read tech publications like TechCrunch are the same people that might want to visit Product Hunt. Additionally, we forwarded compelling products that launched on Product Hunt to reporters that I knew. I made sure to send products that were relevant to their interests or beat, resulting in several articles mentioning and linking back to Product Hunt. Bonus points: We were helping makers and early stage startups get more visibility — Ryan Hoover The event that marked the turning point in the business was the 2008 Democratic National Convention (DNC) in Denver, Colorado. The pair saw an opportunity to capitalize on the quadruple over-attended event that caused a massive shortage in rental housing. Finding hosts to offer up rooms in their houses was actually the easy part. Getting people to rent those rooms proved more difficult. The first counterintuitive strategy was to pitch only the bloggers with the smallest audience possible. […] As ridiculous as it sounds, the coverage by these bottom-feeder press was the social proof that more prominent publications needed to piggyback on the story. Eventually, national news networks, including NBC and CBS, were interviewing the founders of the unknown startup that was housing the biggest political convention in history. The DNC bump was great for business, but it only lasted a week. The founders were desperate for a way to extend the impact of the event. While sitting around their kitchen table one day, still extremely broke, they came up with the idea that would bring Airbnb to profitability: cereal. Both designers who graduated from the prestigious Rhode Island School of Design, the pair created fictitious cereals called “Obama O's, the Cereal of Change,” and “Cap’n McCain's, a Maverick in Every Box.” They designed the box artwork themselves and convinced a student at UC Berkeley to print 500 units of each box on the cheap. The boxes were delivered as flat rectangles that had to be cut and assembled by hand. “I was thinking at the time, that Mark Zuckerberg was never hot gluing anything at Facebook – so maybe this is not a good idea,” recalls Chesky. The founders sent boxes to hundreds of the most well-known tech bloggers, hoping that they would proudly display them on their desks and that they, or their colleagues, would eventually write their story. Shortly thereafter, they started selling the political cereal at $40 per box. The Obama O's sold like hot cakes, so much so that they had to give out Cap’n McCain's for free with each purchase.  — Pando That was essentially our beta release, but we didn't want to call it a beta because then people would think that the service would be flaky or unreliable,” Butterfield says. Instead, with help from an impressive press blitz (based largely on the team's prior experience — i.e. use whatever you've got going for you), they welcomed people to request an invitation to try Slack. On the first day, 8,000 people did just that; and two weeks later, that number had grown to 15,000. The big lesson here: Don't underestimate the power of traditional media when you launch. — Stewart Butterfield They also contacted the press directly rather than using a PR firm, and Kevin notes that this went down very well. A good product, pitched by the passionate creators themselves, and as it happens they secured a load of good coverage for launch. “We were shameless about contacting people who we thought would love the product”, says Kevin. “But it paid off. People actually said to us there’s no point contacting publications such as The New York Times and that we’d be wasting our time. But not only did The New York Times speak to us, they also sent someone to meet with us”. On the day of launch in October 2010, all the press coverage happened at roughly the same time and their servers were hit hard. — TNW Key question: Could you build a community now, to leverage later? Product Hunt, a daily leaderboard of new products, began as an email list using Linkydink, a tool for creating collaborative daily email digests. […] Over Thanksgiving break, we designed and built Product Hunt. Meanwhile, we reached out to contributors in the MVP and other respected product people, sharing early mocks and gathering feedback. We weren’t just doing customer development, we were getting them excited and making them feel like part of the product (and they were, helping guide our design decisions). 5 days later, we had a very minimal but fully functional product. We emailed our supporters a link to Product Hunt, informing them not to share it publicly. The supporters were thrilled to join and play with a working version of something they had thought about and indirectly, helped build. That day we acquired our first 30 users. […]  By the end of the week, we had 100 users and felt ready to share Product Hunt with the world. — Ryan Hoover The founders of Stack Overflow (Joel Spolsky & Jeff Atwood) both had large communities of existing followers from their previous online endeavors (Joel On Software and Coding Horror respectively). They invited members of those communities to participate in a private beta, in which they seeded the site with content so it didn't launch with no content whatsoever. — Jon Top seven strategies to acquire your first 1,000 users Go where your target users are, offline Go where your target users are, online Invite your friends Create FOMO in order to drive word-of-mouth Leverage influencers Get press Build a community pre-launch Key questions to ask yourself to determine where to focus: Who are your early target users, and where they currently congregating, offline? Who are your early target users, and where they currently congregating, online? Do your friends fit into the target user group? If so, have you invited them yet? Does your product rely on UGC? Consider curating the early community. Is your value-prop incredibly strong? Consider throwing up a waitlist. Is your product innately social? Consider relying on existing users to invite new users. Who are influencers of your target users, and how could you get them to talk about your product? What’s a unique, compelling, fresh story you could pitch press? Could you build a community now, to leverage later? That’s it for this week! Hit me up if you have any stories, feedback, or insights to share. Otherwise, see you next week! Image sources: Tinder, DoorDash, Lyft, Robinhood, Twitter, Nextdoor, Etsy, Mailbox, Pinterest, Product Hunt, Airbnb If you’re finding this newsletter valuable, consider sharing it with friends, or subscribing if you aren’t already. Sincerely, Lenny 👋 Great summary, thanks for putting this together. You're 100% right, this kind of analysis is hard to find all in one place, its scattered across Medium, LinkedIn, blogs, articles, etc. Thanks for this, I’m doing the free version for now but intend to do the full subscription when I can afford. Can’t wait to try and apply the above article when we launch in a couple months. No posts Ready for more?

The HOTSAUCE agenda is live! Join us in NYC Nov. 2–3. Tickets 50% off using the code 2HOT Learn / Guides / Growth product management Back to guides Your first 1,000 users provide essential feedback to help you refine your product and fuel growth.  The key to getting these early users is to understand who they are, what they struggle with, and how they solve their problems today. It’s only then that you can create a product that meets their needs. Not sure where to start to acquire your first 1,000 users? This guide takes you through six steps to identify, attract, and retain your first users, including tips on how to create a product that delights and converts them into emotionally engaged product advocates. Hotjar shows you who’s visiting your site and why, and how they’re interacting, so you can create a better product that meets their needs. Sustainable product growth thrives on three foundational principles—keep these in mind as you work through the steps that follow: Focus on building relationships with your target users instead of obsessing over customer acquisition: this is essential not only to onboard early users, but also to get their feedback to create a product that meets their needs and offers them a winning experience Develop deep user empathy to create an engaging product: go beyond performance metrics to really understand your users and how they can use your product to solve their problems. Then, let your understanding of your customer guide product decisions. Prioritize offering an exceptional product experience (PX): true startup success relies on delighting users by offering them an unparalleled product experience. This is an effective way to encourage users to use your product beyond the initial sign-up and become loyal users who could potentially become brand advocates. With these principles in mind, here are five steps to getting your first 1,000 users: Before you reach out to your first visitors, determine your ideal user personas. This is crucial to contact people who’ll likely love your product—after all, it’s designed to solve their unique problems—and retain them. Knowing your ideal users well enough also guides your product positioning and messaging so it speaks directly to them, which helps attract more target users. Take it from Substack, for example. Their team had a razor-sharp focus on who their product was for: professional writers with an established audience. So, instead of wasting time reaching out to semi-professionals or beginner writers, the Substack team only connected with and convinced professional writers to try their product. How to start learning about your target users: Connect with people in your network who you think will find your product useful. If there’s no one in your network who aligns with your ideal user, ask your friends and colleagues to connect you with others in their network who they think would benefit from your product. As you interview these folks, ask them about:  Similar products they use What they like about them What they dislike about those tools Ask unbiased, open-ended questions so people can express their thoughts in their own words, without being influenced by your opinion to make the most of the insights from these potential user interviews. Talk less and listen more to give your interviewees the space to share their opinions. And you don’t need to limit these conversations to the research phase. Continue building your relationships with these users as your product develops, and invite them to try your product in its later stages and share their feedback. Slack took this approach to get their early users and gather feedback on their product. Team members convinced 6–10 of their friends who worked at other companies to use Slack, which taught them a lot about how their tool worked for large teams. Launch user surveys on key pages of your website—like product or landing pages—to find out who’s visiting and why, and ask them a mix of closed- and open-ended questions to identify who they are and learn more about them. Closed-ended questions could be in the form of a ‘yes’ or ‘no’ question to help you segment users before you follow up with open-ended questions. You can also give users multiple choices to answer questions like which industry they’re in, their current role, and their company size. Open-ended questions, on the other hand, ask for visitors’ unique answers in their own words—giving you vital voice-of-the-customer (VoC) data. Some examples of open-ended questions to ask include: Why are you visiting today? Where did you hear about us? What are you currently struggling with? Bonus: use the Hotjar beta feedback survey template to invite people to try your product: Pro tip: push Hotjar Survey responses directly to Slack to analyze survey responses with your team to get everyone on the same page about who your ideal user is, while sharing any key insights you may have learned by directly chatting with target users. Just as important as knowing your target users is understanding the value your product offers relative to its competitors—your unique value proposition (UVP)—to help you convince your early users to try your product over competing tools in the market. Begin by asking yourself: what can we offer, which is 10x better than market alternatives? For example, one of the reasons for Canva’s astounding success is the clarity they had—from the start—about the value their tool would offer. Their easy-to-use tool makes it simple for non-designers to design compared to tools like Adobe Suite, which dominated the market at the time of Canva's launch. How to determine the value of your product: Studying your competitors’ strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats (SWOT) helps you understand how strong their grip is on the market. It also shows you where they’re lacking, so you can capitalize on those weaknesses to offer your users a better solution. For example, competitors’ tools may not be offering enough integrations that help users create a streamlined workflow, or may have poor customer support service with users complaining about their slow responses on social media and review platforms. Take these learnings into account when designing your product, so you can offer your target users a solution they need. Study your target audience’s pain points online Head to online communities, Facebook and LinkedIn groups, specialized directories, and Q&A forums, like Reddit or Quora, to learn about: User pain points The issues they’re discussing with their peers The tools they currently use Digging into these details helps with product positioning, development, marketing, and sales efforts as you begin to understand which struggles to solve, what language to use, and where to reach out, engage with, and market to your users. Besides analyzing qualitative data from online platforms, build a strong presence in these communities, yourself. This is one of the most effective ways to cultivate relationships with your ideal users, and it gives you the opportunity to invite them to use your product and offer feedback. Netflix’s Customer Acquisition Specialist Corey Bridges did the same. Without revealing himself as a Netflix employee, he joined online communities where DVD enthusiasts gathered, and discussed movies with them. Eventually, weeks before launch, he told them about a new movie site called Netflix, and got Netflix their early users. Onboarding is the first real hands-on experience users have with your product that convinces them to activate and actually use your tool beyond the initial sign-up. Your job? Simplify the path to a user’s 'aha! moment'—their first experience of value with your product—that'll leave them thinking, “Well, that was easy! I could use more of it.” How to create a friction-free onboarding experience: Providing resources that walk your users through the steps to take to accomplish tasks using your product helps turn early users into power users of your product.  Educating customers also helps you fuel growth by empowering individual users with resources that can help them, so they can get buy-in to use your product for their team. To achieve this for Slack, Founder Stewart Bufferfield shares: We created materials to explain Slack to individuals—what it was for, how it worked, what you’re supposed to do—but we also built resources for team administrators. We wanted to give them ammunition to help convince the team. Use these five effective customer education methods to start empowering your users: Create onboarding checklists or give users starter challenges that help them understand which steps to take to accomplish a specific task using your product. Canva, for example, created how-to starter challenges within their tool that encouraged users to take small actions such as changing the color of a circle, helping users learn how to design with their tool.   Create product how-to guides, like these comprehensive Do More With Hotjar guides, to walk early users with a basic grip on your product through advanced ways to use it. By teaching users ways to get more value from your product, you can turn them into loyal users who appreciate how your product helps them grow.  Use native tooltips, which are flickering spotlights that you can launch within specific points in your app’s user interface (UI) to display a short message explaining what a new feature does or what to do if a user is stuck Create a comprehensive, easy-to-navigate knowledge base packed with resources explaining how to use different features and answering questions users frequently ask  Offer in-app messaging and communication that informs users about product updates, new features, and iterations within your tool As you study different user onboarding experiences, notice how companies limit the number of steps users have to take to realize the value of the product (also known as a 'quick time-to-value'). Pay attention to how the product guides users from one step to another, and try to replicate these practices in your onboarding experience. Take Calendly, for instance. It hardly takes 60 seconds to set up an account and get your calendar up and running. Similarly, Medium onboards users in three clicks—onboarding takes one minute, and users can publish their first story in roughly three. If you want to see more examples of brilliant user onboarding, check out this article. Use Hotjar Session Recordings to watch how users navigate on your site and interact with your product after they sign up. Observe where they get stuck, which buttons they click on (and which ones they miss or ignore), and how fast they’re reaching their ‘aha! moment’. Filter recordings to see signs of frustration like rage clicks or u-turns to discover which page or product elements you need to change to improve the user experience.  Use what you learn to eliminate unnecessary steps from your onboarding process, optimize the user experience (UX), and improve time-to-value. See it in action: ClassHero used Hotjar Recordings to fix their onboarding rate, which had dropped by 48%. By watching session replays of users going through the onboarding process, ClassHero’s Sales Operations Manager John Gilmore spotted issues that were holding users back. From there, he used Hotjar Highlights to create and share clips demonstrating the problems users faced when signing up, and convinced his stakeholders to make fixing those blockers a priority. The result? Onboarding completion rates increased to over 75%, from 39% before the fix. Prioritizing a quick time-to-value when onboarding is just one piece of the puzzle. Because sustainable product growth flourishes on retaining users and gaining their loyalty, you need to continue providing users value and delighting them at each step of the user journey. This value-first approach, known as product-led growth, helps you appeal to your first 1,000 users, reduce churn, and:  Lower customer acquisition costs, considering your user base grows on the back of product-led growth marketing Increase customer satisfaction (CSAT) scores, as optimizing UX and front-loading the value of your product helps you achieve customer delight Promote innovative problem-solving, as you combine expertise across the business by building teams cross-functional collaboration  If you’re interested in exploring product-led growth for your company, use the insights you’ve gathered about your ideal user—and what they want from your product—to focus on building and improving your product according to their needs. How to drive product-led growth: Jobs to be done (JTBDs) are the tasks or ‘jobs’ users want to complete while using your product. The faster they can accomplish these tasks, the more likely they’ll be to continue using your product and turn into loyal customers over time.   For example, people using Canva want to quickly design something—say a social media graphic or pitch deck. The faster users can create their design with the tool, the more satisfied they are, which encourages them to use and recommend Canva more. Make sure your product also helps early users achieve their JTBDs, so you can retain them beyond the initial sign-up and eventually convert them into brand advocates. When users enjoy a smooth, bug-free product experience, they can continue accomplishing their JTBDs fast, which increases customer satisfaction and user retention levels.  Returning to our Canva example, the tool retains its users and turns them into product fans by providing an exceptional experience at each step of the product journey. Some ways they do so include providing a host of templates and design elements that make design easier for users and consistently providing new in-demand features such as their ‘Brand Kit’. To provide a remarkable product experience yourself, watch Session Recordings to see how users interact with your product and gather customer feedback using surveys to optimize users’ product experience by: Identifying moments of user delight so you can double down on what’s working Identifying blockers such as broken links and bugs and immediately fixing them for a smooth, frustration-free experience Try this: host Hotjar watch parties to learn from user behavior, together. Gather your team to review recordings for an hour, and watch as users reach their ‘aha! moments’—or watch them struggle and exit your product or website without experiencing any value. Sara, the Customer Knowledge Manager at Spotahome, hosts these parties and says, “After most sessions, developers and product managers would leave the meetings with a crazy amount of bugs to fix.” Hotjar Watch Parties are a simple way to show your team first-hand how users are interacting with your product or site Offering users an excellent product and user experience is crucial for retaining them—especially in the early stages of growth as Product Hunt’s Founder Ryan Hoover puts it: Engagement and retention is most important at this early stage. If people don’t stick around, press goes to waste. Or worse, founders are fooled into thinking they’re making progress. Here are three tips to turn new users into loyal customers: Going above and beyond answering your customers’ questions helps cement loyalty and get you referrals. Set up a team to quickly respond to customer queries if you can. Alternatively, assign the job to someone on your team or split the work among yourselves, so you can efficiently provide support to users.   Ensure each reply thoroughly answers users’ questions; or if you think it’s going to take longer to resolve a query, inform your customer you’re working on their concern and will get back to them in an estimated time frame.  Immediately responding to users with a note of appreciation and acting on the feedback that they share with you shows people you value their suggestions and base your product strategy on their success. But since you can’t prioritize every other request, familiarize yourself with prioritization frameworks like:  The RICE scoring method where you grade feedback requests according to their reach, impact, confidence, and effort The value/effort matrix where you visualize which feedback suggestions will produce the most impact with the least effort The MoSCoW method where you divide feature requests into must-have, should-have, could-have, and won’t-have categories In Hotjar's state of the customer experience survey, we discovered that companies that prioritize providing an outstanding customer experience (CX) increase their retention levels and get more referrals. Track how satisfied your users are with the product and user experience you offer with CSAT surveys to measure the results of your efforts and improve in areas you’re lacking to reduce churn.  For example, the CX metrics you’re monitoring may show that you aren’t responding fast enough to users’ queries—use this data to implement strategies to respond faster and retain your early users.  Remember that sustainable product growth starts with knowing and understanding your target users and creating a product that solves their problems. Once you’ve got this foundation in place, maintain it by continually reviewing how your users interact with your product to eliminate blockers, optimize and create features users need, and double down on what works to provide customer delight and gain user loyalty. Sign up for Hotjar today to gather user insights using on-site Surveys, Session Recordings, and Heatmaps. Start with identifying who your product’s ideal users are, then reach out to them to learn about their struggles. Continue building relationships with these people, then invite them to use your product and share their feedback with you. Refine your product according to the feedback you gather to retain your early users.  Find your first 100 users in your network, friends’ network, and online communities. As you invite these people to use your product, be sure to ask for their feedback so you can refine your product to better meet their needs. Find out where your ideal customers hang out online. Join those communities and build relationships with these people before inviting them to use your product.  Previous chapter All guides Sign up for Hotjar content straight to your inbox. I have read and accept the conditions outlined in the privacy policy. Contact Sales Copyright © 2014 - 2023 Hotjar Ltd. All rights reserved.

 Getting your first 1000 customers is no different than getting your first 5,000 or 1,000,000 customers. It all comes down to a few key strategies…
 Step one to getting your first 1000 customers is to create a product/service that delivers on a promise (i.e. solves a pain) your customers have. …and also gratifies (i.e. they experience the core value) your customers when they sign up or experience it. Think about the first time you had ever been to a Starbucks – just the interaction and the experience. There was like this “aha moment” where you walked away and were like “That was amazing… I’ve never experienced that before… they asked me for my name… the coffee came out tasting really great… it just felt like it was really thought out, deliberate and well developed.” That’s the part that a lot of people don’t have (a great experience) – that if they could get right – would really make everything else work. In the software world they call it “Customer Success”… but you can use the same in your business. Getting your product/service to a point where it delivers on the promise that you display on your homepage and gratifies your customers (or gets them to this aha moment) is number one. I call it the core product value – getting them to experience that core value the first time they sign-up for your product. Some people think they have a marketing problem – and I’m going to tell you right off the bat that 99% of the time it’s a product problem. They don’t have a product that solves a problem, or the promise they made isn’t delivered on. I like the word growth engine because it has this connotation of moving forward… you pour gas into the tank, it produces energy and it moves it forward… and as long as you keep pouring gas into it, it keeps moving forward. It’s a great way to think about your marketing (ie. your demand marketing or inbound marketing) because essentially you’re building it to get new customers. The way to build your engine is by testing different marketing channels. Exclusive Bonus: Download my Growth Guide: The Top 7 Apps I Use To Growth Hack My Startups. You know you have an engine of growth when you know time (or money) added to the engine will result in “X” number of new profitable customers. A challenge that most startups have is they don’t realize that when they do a bunch of “viral” marketing they could get a bunch of people who sign up and never use the product. This happens all the time with PR. They think, “Well, if I get covered on TechCrunch (because that’s the holy grail of anything!), then my startup is going to be successful.” That couldn’t be further from the truth. There will be this big spike in new signups because a bunch of people signed up to register to confirm their username – but that’s the only reason they signed up. They have no interest in the product.  They think, “Someday if this takes off, I’ve got to make sure I have my username!” And they never come back, they never use it, and they skew all of your metrics. They make you feel great for the day or the week, then you just feel like “Wow, that spiked, and now it’s flat again.” It’s not sustainable. That’s why for me, it’s about building an engine and it’s about figuring out the different marketing channels. Once you have a product that really delights – and you have a concept of building habits that gets new customers – it’s about doing LESS. A lot of startups create a bunch of stuff. They think, “I’ve got to do Facebook marketing, I’ve got to do content marketing, I’ve got to do PR, I’ve got to be speaking at events.  I need to do all of this stuff.” Most of the time – when nothing works, and you’re not seeing results – it’s because you are doing too many things and you don’t know which one of those things is the reason it’s working. If you do less, then you’ll KNOW what’s working, or not. Think about this concept… most companies die from indigestion – not starvation. They die because they do too many things and they don’t focus. When you do too many things, you don’t know what’s not working. If you want to get your first 1,000 customers (or your first 5,000 or 1,000,000 customers) you want to make sure you have a product that delights, you focus on building an engine that is repeatable and scalable to get new customers that are profitable and you want to make sure that you are doing less things – not more – so that you really deliver – and really learn faster. To me, at the end of the day, the definition of a startup is learning as fast as possible. And if you have competitors out there, remember: “He who learns the fastest wins.” What are some strategies you’ve used to get your first 1000 customers? Leave a comment below with your answer.   Join over 5500+ like-minded B2B SaaS founders learning to scale, grow, and exit with Dan Martell and some of the top SaaS Founders in the world. If you’re a B2B SaaS Founder already over $10K MRR, then we invite you to schedule a Growth Session with our team of Scale Specialists. You’ll walk away from this complimentary call with a Growth Action Plan customized for your SaaS business.  Copyright 2023 Dan Martell   |   Privacy Policy

.surveysparrow.com Already using SurveySparrow? 
Login By clicking on "Get Started", I agree to the Privacy Policy and Terms of Service. This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and  Terms of Service apply. Enterprise Survey  Software to thrive in your  business ecosystem Turn customers  into promoters Real-time data collection,  on the move.  Go internet-independent. Conduct omnidirectional employee assessments. Increase productivity, grow together. Turn your existing customers  into raving promoters by 
monitoring online reviews.  Build loyalty and advocacy  by delivering personalized support  experiences that matter. Collect feedback smartly from  your website visitors with the  engaging
Chatbot for website. Swift, easy, secure.  Scalable for your organization. Our surveys come with superpowers ⚡ Blog
Best Of Shihab Muhammed 5 October 2023    6  min read The first 50 days of a startup is bound to eventful, but ours was a roller-coaster ride! Happy coincidences, disappointing downers, the thrill of the first sign up and a lot of taking dismay ‘in its stride’… we have seen it all. But scoring 1000 customers in 50 days is quite the cherry on top! First 1000 customers is a milestone worth celebrating. To mark this benchmark, I am sharing our go-to-market and user acquisition strategies in this blog post. This is an honest account of how we reached here, what we would do differently the next time, and takeaways from each tactic we implemented in the last 50 days. This can’t be emphasized enough. Our product is the heart of all our marketing strategies. I can assure you that if SurveySparrow weren’t half as good as it is, no amount of aggressive marketing would have saved it. We left no stone unturned to ensure that the team has built a truly beautiful product. We rolled out the private beta and incorporated the feedback to get ready a finer, better product by the launch date. What we could have done differently: We were a little too exuberant in promoting our launch news across channels that we risked expulsion from HackerNews community. They suspected that we were falsely promoting when we upvoted too enthusiastically and we ended up apologizing for it. I learned that self-promotion isn’t enough and often, not worth the risk. Takeaway: There are many great business ideas that are bound to work- so pick one! You can’t build a loyal customer base if your product is not worth their loyalty. Earn it! Everyone out there is competing to grab maximum eyeballs but the launch is often the earliest milestone that can make it. Press is your best friend at these times. Getting media coverage is imperative to get the word out and build an excitement about your product among potential customers. A piece of media coverage is often social proof that your company is worth exploring. Click To Tweet We realized the potential mileage the press coverage could get us and I send out personalized pitches to the media relevant in our case. We requested introductions, went on calls, created a stellar media kit, and engaged with a lot of writers. This brilliant piece in Tech in Asia alone drove a ton of traffic to our site. While the TechinAsia article was fabulous, we had no such luck with  TechCrunch, VentureBeat, The Next Web, and Mashable though it could’ve done wonders for our visibility.   What we could have done differently: Start early. Building connections are important. If I could have another go, I would identify the writers who are more likely to cover our news, build a relationship and maintain that credibility before pitching (rather than cramming all these in two weeks). Takeaway: PR is an ongoing process. Connections and follow up is important round the clock. Continue to engage your press relations and remember to treat them as real people and not robots. Follow up. Follow up. Follow up. When you are new and seek to make a difference, you’ll need all the goodwill you can find. Offering promo codes and giveaways are a smooth tactic to drive more conversions. Our launch day offer of a flat 30% discount, and Cyber Monday giveaway for 100 Premium Lifetime Accounts drove handsome traffic to the website. However, the Premium Accounts for a lifetime at just $49, offered exclusively to ‘The Lifetime Tech Deal Fans‘ FB group worked like a charm.   What we could have done differently: We found a lot of customers asking if the CyberMonday contest was still on, once the deal expired. They wished they knew about the contest sooner. If we could have another shot, we will make sure the word got out.  Next time, we will make sure that FB groups and listing sites are leveraged more effectively. Takeaway: Offers and discounts maketh a happier customer. And happy customers are more likely to spread your word, write a glowing review, and remain loyal throughout. Actively blogging and sharing valuable content can go a long way in attracting and engaging dedicated followers. Our startup story is the most successful piece of content I’ve created yet. It was widely read and even drove 10,000+ visits in a single day when shared in HN. What we could have done differently: Be consistent with creating and sharing more such stories. Also, actively produce quirky videos which are often the most shared content. Takeaway: People treasure content that adds value to them. Honest stories and sharing the lessons we learned will appeal to a steadfast audience. I can’t stress this enough. You cannot get away with offering mere subpar support. Our Customer Success team has been working hard with 24*7 support and rewarded with very happy customer accounts.   What we could have done differently: We fumbled a little too much with the help desk articles before reaching an agreement and publishing it. Help articles shouldn’t be to show off your superior knowledge of the product. Takeaway: Listen to your customers. Their insights will tell you where the product lacks in and what to work on next. Retain customers because they matter the most. We hit the nail with Affiliate Marketing/Performance Marketing. I wasn’t even aware that Affiliate Marketers can share our product in FB groups with a simple post and still drive an insane amount of conversions. But that was before we worked out the exclusive deal with the ‘Lifetime Tech Deal Fans’. Whoever knew that affiliate marketing doesn’t always have to be a 2000+ word long reviews? The ROI is about 1300% with affiliate marketing. How absolutely cool is that? We were only required to do some homework, assist our affiliates and watch as customers came pouring in. What we could have done differently: Start working on this earlier. Our CyberMonday contest had way better chances if it were promoted with the help of affiliates. Takeaway: Getting people with a faithful audience to put in a good word can do wonders. Once again, it is about sharing goodwill.  90% of customers admit that their buying decisions are influenced by online reviews. And it pays to politely request your satisfied customers to post their review online. We were delighted with the raving reviews on G2 Crowd, FinancesOnline, and Capterra and we are sure that it will help convert more customers! Gaining visibility is at the heart of every promotional strategy we plan. Building your profile in the various listing sites such as CrunchBase, HackerNoon, Betalist, and ProductHunt go a long way in this regard. While creating a profile is rather easy, getting noticed can be trickier. For instance, our launch news shared in ProductHunt enjoyed only a lukewarm response. However, my blog post shared in Hacker News (How my third email reminder from HR motivated me to launch my startup) did amazingly well and led to 7000+ visits in a day!   What we could have done differently: The posts shared on such third-party sites should carry only a few, well-chosen words. See if your posts are capable of adding value to the audience. If not, find one that will. Take away: It takes a fair amount of attempts to get it right. Don’t be disheartened if it doesn’t become ‘viral’ overnight. Building credibility is a slow, steady process. Click To Tweet Is it way too early to say this is what we found ‘on hindsight’? Because these are the mistakes we made, lucky breaks we got, hard work that paid off, and the lessons we learned. And while we are over the moon with our growing customer list, there is still so much more to do. More oversights, surprises, and takeaways until we reach the next milestone. Subscribe for more tales from the sparrow on its mission to revolutionize surveys. Founder & CEO at SurveySparrow SaaS Entrepreneur, Growth Leader, Built and scaled multi-million dollar SaaS products. Passionate about building user-friendly SaaS Products. Leave us your email, we wont spam. Promise! No Credit Card Required. 14-Day Free Trial Want to learn more about SurveySparrow? We'll be in touch soon! Please enter a valid Email ID. 14-Day Free Trial • No Credit card required • 40% more completion rate Hi there, we use cookies to offer you a better browsing experience and to analyze site traffic. By continuing to
use our website, you consent to the use of these cookies. Learn
More  +1 (800) 481-0410  support@surveysparrow.com Copyright © SurveySparrow Inc.
2023Privacy PolicyTerms of ServiceSitemapGDPRDPACCPASurveySparrow Inc., 2345 Yale St FL 1, Palo Alto, CA
94306

All Your Apps in One Dashboard Master App Store Optimization Strengthen Your Competitive Edge Read & Reply to Reviews There are several stages to user acquisition, and if you have an app in the store, you know that the first stage is the hardest! How do you get the very early users? That's what we're going to look at in this guide. While apps and games are very different, the strategies we'll go over are the same and apply to both apps and games. 
In this guide:
If You Build it, They Won't Come.If You Tell Them About it, They Will Come.Why 1,000?1,000 Users the "Easy" Way1,000 Users the "Hard" Way1,000 Users the Right WayWhat About App Store Optimization?It's All About the AudienceGoing Beyond the First 1,000 UsersThe Tools You Need to Succeed

 You've got a super awesome app or a reallyfun game. Everyone's going to love it! Right? Well... They might, if they try it out. The App Store has nearly 2 million apps available for download. Google Play has nearly 4 million. Yet, in 2023, I still hear developers thinking just getting their app or game into the store is enough to get downloads. What?!?!?!? Great app or not, the stores are just too full to do the all selling for you. The good news is that you can do it all on your own. The key is that you have to do it. Get actionable insights in minutes! If the stores are so full how do new apps and games take off? Apps and games that don't have multi-million-dollar ad budgets. They take off by knowing what's available from the store and by building momentum. Fun fact: Apple gives new apps a 7 day boost. Did you know that? But you need to have your keywords done right to ride that boost. The more you actively promote your app or game to the right audience, the more likely it is to take off. Sounds pretty straightforward, but without a critical mass, many activities may seem impossible. That's why it's so important to get those first 1,000 users, then use them to grow beyond. Because 1,000 users isn't a lot and isn't a little. It's enough to help you spread the word and brag about it if it's brag-worthy, and it's enough to get you noticed by Apple's and Google's search algorithms so you can leverage App Store Optimization to add a few more 0s to that total. By the way, if you're thinking, "how many users can I even get?" it's probably a good time to do some competitor intelligence. A long time ago, someone told me that everything is possible, but I have to decide what I have more of: money or time. That analogy is true for user-acquisition just as much. The easy way to acquire your first 1,000 users is to advertise inside the store with Apple's Search Ads or Google Ads. You can also run ads outside of the store, like on Facebook or TikTok, but those will likely require a higher budget to get the same downloads. The benefits of search ads are: But they come at a cost: Those costs aside, because we're focusing on 1,000 users, they probably won't be too high, which is what makes this "easy" way available to most developers. A few tips to help you get the most out of your campaign: Pro tip: This could work with ads outside of the store, but you'll need to spend more to get the same number of users. That has to do with intent. When a user comes to the store, they're ready to get an app or game. When they're browsing Facebook, Instagram, or some other app, they aren't ready. You'll need to be in front of more users to get a download, and when you do, it's less likely to be relevant. In short, stick to in-store ads to get the most out of your money. That was the money way. Let's talk about the time way, which is to promote the app or game on your own. Doing that takes more time, effort, and resilience because it won't be a walk in the park. But many popular apps and games got their start with elbow-grease. Appfigures is one of those! The DIY way to promote your app is pretty simpleâ€”Find as many places where your target user is and put it in front of them. Unlike ads, when you DIY, you need to do as many things as you can instead of focusing on one, and here are some that are pretty easy to do: Launch it on ProductHunt - This one's mainly for apps. ProductHunt is a huge community of people who are looking for new things. You can post your app for free for the whole community to see, and as an added benefit, ProductHunt's SEO is strong, so you'll probably get some traffic from Google. Ask the store to feature it - Millions of potential users visit the App Store and Google Play every day. By having it featured in the store, you'll get exposure to many of those for free. Here's how to do it on the App Store and Google Play. Answer questions related to it - This one's mainly for apps. Sites like Quora and Stackoverflow are full of questions. Some might be relevant to your industry. Find them by searching for the same keywords that you'd advertise your app in, and answer them. Sign off with a link to your app. Tell journalists about it - Lots of games get reviewed, and lots of apps get mentioned by journalists every day. Yours can be too, and all you have to do is ask nicely (and persistently). You can find more information about how to do these and other ways to get downloads here: 13 Free & Easy Ways to Promote Your App or Game That's a lot of work! It's worth it, but it's still a lot of work. There is a better way â€“ a mix of everything. Ads are expensive but easy, and DIY promotion is hard but free. What if you do a little bit of both? The great thing about ads is that you control the budget. Take a budget you can live with for a month and aim at getting a few hundred downloads. Shouldn't be too expensive. Then, pick some of the DIY methods that are most convenient for you and fit into your schedule. Doing a little bit of both will mean you won't spend too much and won't work too hard, and still get your first batch of users. How much of each will depend a lot on the type of app or game and how hard it is to find its audience (the DIY method). Remember that you can start small, both ways, and grow your spend and effort as you get more comfortable. Notice how I didn't include App Store Optimization in either group of activities? That's because it's not just a nice to have these daya but rather a requirement. Remember that boost I mentioned earlier? You want that boost. Believe me. But to get it you have to have your keywords all set correctly before you launch. ASO is an iterative process that builds momentum over time, so the sooner you start the faster you'll see results. You need to do that regardless of whether you run Apple Search Ads, push outside of the store, or pitch a million journalists. If you're not sure where to start, this ASO checklist should help. These are all actionable ways that should get results fairly quickly. If they don't, pause and re-evaluate your audience choice. If you put the app in front of the wrong audience, the downloads won't come, whether you spend money on ads or time promoting it. What's the wrong audience? If you have a business app, you shouldn't promote it to students. If you have a kids game, you shouldn't target it towards non-parents. If you take the time to do your competitor research, you should know what's the right audience for your app, but if you didn't do that, get ready to experiment. Once you reach a critical mass of users, you can start leveraging techniques like App Store Optimization to get even more users. Start by making sure you use the same keywords we talked about before, and as you gain more downloads, find keywords where your app can fit into the top results (top meaning 5 - 10, not #1). The more downloads you get, the more competitive the keywords you target can be. Related: All of our ASO guides As with most of our guides, it's worth reminding that a lot of this is incremental, meaning that the more you do, the more you get. The key is to do. Appfigures offers simple and intuitive ASO tools that automatically track your apps and competitors, and offer keyword suggestions and discovery. Get started â†’   Have a great idea for an app or game? Learn how to make sure it'll work by following these simple steps. Get more downloads with these 9 easy ways to find the best keywords for App Store Optimizarion. Keyword optimization and rank monitoring to help you grow your organic downloads. Use downloads and revenue estimates to understand the competiton and gain an edge. Credit card not required. Copyright Â© 2009 - 2023. All rights reserved.

No matter how great your products or services are, you need to have customers for a sustainable business. As an entrepreneur, you also need to understand the ability to come up with great product ideas does not necessarily mean that you have the innate ability to sell it off to customers successfully. In fact, the hardest part of any business is in getting customers. Not every entrepreneur is a natural salesperson and the first 1000 users are the biggest hurdle that most start-ups and small business face. So we thought of providing some of the best and proven techniques to get the first 1000 customers.       1. Make use of your Peer Group If you cannot get your friends and family use your new product or service, it might be tough to get any customer. In fact, this is the first test that needs to be passed for most start-ups. Use social media to get your friends and folks to post about the new service or to share the invite code. Make use of communities and forums where sharing of new ideas, products or services are welcome.    2. Find the customers you need now Many start-ups often target a large number of customers to get the business going. The initial focus when it comes to customer acquisition, however, should be to get customers who would need your platform right now and start using them immediately. This would also help in minimizing the onboarding processes and sales cycles.    3. Target the ideal customer and find him/her Apart from the near and dear ones, finding the first user is one of the most crucial steps in the user acquisition process. The first user is the cornerstone for the later customer success stories. So, laser focus on what needs to be accomplished to get that first customer. Not to forget, one customer who really loves your product can bring in more customers by just word of mouth, leading to what is known as “organic growth”.    4. Quality over Quantity For any business, providing the best user experience is the ultimate game changer. By observing the behavioral patterns, the product or service needs to be constantly optimized. Like most of the things, a product or service evolves over time. Also remember in the budding stages, having 10 diehard customers will be much more valuable to the business than having 1000 mildly interested users.  Based on the feedback from the users, tailor the product as needed and the users will be inclined to spread the word around.    5. Identify the barriers Whether we like it or not, barriers are always present for any business or product which often keeps customers from joining or signing on. You need to analyze why the leads are not getting converted into users. Some of the easiest solutions could be increased communication on the products or better messaging. Often start-ups are requested to ensure all the necessary product information is easily accessible and readable on the website and apps. Make sure, every single person can access and understand about your product and how it can help them or their business.    6. Investing in Press One of the best ways to achieve coverage and acquire users in the early stages would be through the relevant press. Informative articles both online and offline can draw the attention of potential users and generate valuable leads. Also, articles are one of the easiest ways to let people know about your business.    7. Treat Each customer as “Your Only Customer” By making use of “treating each customer as your only customer”, many start-ups have achieved wonders as far as their customer base and the products are concerned. All users love individualized attention. By treating them right and asking them for their feedback, they become one of best sources for new business opportunities. Plus their feedback could be invaluable in improving the platforms and product line-ups.    8. Smart & Aggressive Pricing and Marketing One of the biggest reasons, why start-ups often fail is because of the extreme pricing plans they try to pursue. In order to undercut the existing competitors, start-ups look at narrow margins resulting in fewer budgets for any meaningful marketing campaigns. The proven technique here is to ensure there is enough in the bank to shaafford any meaningful marketing campaigns and not to pursue too much on narrow margins.    9. Associate Everything Together The Internet is definitely a big ocean comprising of several tides. There are customers, there are vendors often surfacing in different social media platforms or through communication media such as emails. Entrepreneurs are often recommended to link all these platforms so that anything and everything is associated with building a meaningful customer base. Make use of components especially viral components while designing your product. This would encourage users to share about your product in social media.One need not force people, rather leave them with the freedom to use that option.    10. Referral Incentives One of the proven tricks in the sleeve is the incentive approach. People often are hesitant to try new services. So, to override their uncertainty, the best weapon is to offer a discount. Lure them with an option to pay less than the full price. Provide the discount option to be shared via a two-way referral program. Easy approach with both customer and his friend getting benefits-it is a win-win situation for all the parties.   Every business today needs to understand that trust is one of biggest obstacles over the internet when it comes to trying new services or products. So entrepreneurs share your success and be proactive. Encourage other users to share their success stories using your product. Internet users see other customers’ feedback for validating the claims. Always ensure to have the fastest approach for any customer communication in place, even after sales. These little things do add up when it comes to the organic growth of customers.   Getting the first 1000 users does not happen overnight or at the snap of your fingers. It takes time, but with the simple and effective tricks above, we can assure you that your first 1000 users will lead to thousands and more in the future. With an ability to learn and apply, passion for coding and development, Gagandeep Sethi has made his way from a trainee to Tech Lead at Promatics. He stands at the forefront of the fatest moving technology industry trend: hybrid mobility solutions. He has good understanding of analyzing technical needs of clients and proposing the best solutions. Having demonstrated experience in building hybroid apps using Phonegap and Ionic, his work is well appreciated by his clients. Gagandeep holds master’s degree in Computer Application. When he is not at work, he loves to listen to music and hang out with friends. Your concerns are legit, and we know how to deal with them. Hook us up for a discussion, no strings attached, and we will show how we can add value to your operations! Let's talk about it  095010 82999  or  info@promaticsindia.com  Software development company. Promatics is a top rated web and mobile app development company excelling in design, development and launch of web & mobile apps. NYC, New York, USA London, UK Dubai, UAE Sydney NSW, Australia New Delhi, India Copyright © 2023 Promatics Technologies Private Limited. All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy

For so many founders and entrepreneurs developing mobile apps, the most difficult challenge early on is how to attract initial users. It's especially tricky territory because every business idea is different, so there’s no “one-size-fits-all” approach to begin building a loyal customer base. In today’s hyper-competitive, fast-paced digital world, with new technology enabling better, faster and easier-to-use software to build better, faster and easier-to-use products, it seems like everyone and their smartphone-savvy grandmother is developing a mobile app. So how do you stand out from the crowd? How do you get people to know about your app, care about it, use it, buy it? How do you attract early adopters to cultivate an engaged community to eventually grow into paying customers? Lots of great mobile apps thrive and take off, and lots of great mobile apps never get off the ground. In many cases, based on our interactions with thousands of founders in the Draftbit Community, success seems to come down to how well they enlist the support of those first mobile app users. In this article, we’ll discuss some of the best strategies for doing that.  With consumer mobile-focused startups, the best idea is to build an audience first, and then build a business. It’s critical to have a community of users before a finished product because their feedback is so essential. Many founders approach a solution or the original version of their app with a very specific vision in mind, and they don't want to get product feedback. They want to build the thing they want to build, and they want to do it the way they imagine. But then they end up building the wrong thing or solving the problem in a suboptimal way. In the startup world, when you’re pitching your idea and proposing your solution in the preliminary stage, no one wants to come across as critical or unsupportive, so people will sometimes avoid sharing negative feedback that actually could be quite valuable. If that happens, you end up learning the truth only after your first version is already out there.  It’s so much more efficient to develop a set of enthusiastic users early on, which is why you start collecting those first 1,000 mobile app users before you ever even think about the app store. But how do you do that? There's an old adage that says, “ask for money and you'll get advice; ask for advice and you might get money.” At the beginning, don’t think about selling. Don’t even think about building a product. Think about building a community (or joining an awesome existing one). Think about feedback, simplicity and iteration. About your first 1,000 users – what they want, what they like, what they think. Then you can think about downloads, dollars and the dream you made a reality by bringing your mobile app to life, to market and into people’s hands. Every background carries some sort of bias. For example, developers and designers tend to want to build the product first, without seeking the kind of alpha-test user input that might lead to a better product. Those with a business background might talk up the product in a way that doesn’t yield useful feedback, which can actually improve it. Then there’s the artistic mindset that says, “I’m the one who solved this big, important problem, so I don’t need anyone’s feedback.” There’s nothing wrong with any of these mindsets, of course. But if you want to build a business, you need a mindset that invites honest, meaningful feedback about your product from day one. Those questions, comments or even criticisms can be vital to refining, redeveloping and eventually perfecting – or perhaps pivoting to – your final product.  Friends and family are an excellent source of feedback. They’re people you can trust and who will support you; but they’re also day-one users who can create traction, lend credibility to your app and show newcomers that some other humans have downloaded the thing, so maybe they should too.  Oftentimes, the best approach to building your app is to start by solving the simple version of the problem, the one you’re able to explain to people in five minutes. It can be daunting to try and develop something large and complicated from the get-go, and it can cause trouble down the line, as opposed to starting with a simple concept, gaining some traction, and then growing in complexity over time. A lot of people want to solve the largest, most challenging problem right away, or think about the final version of the thing. They’ll say they want to develop the next Tinder or build the equivalent of Uber today.  But Tinder and Uber didn’t start out that way. They weren’t born fully formed and feature-filled. They started out simple and expanded. Why would you expect to be successful doing something that the already successful companies didn’t do?  There's a great, short book called The Mom Test, which is a short, practical guide to how to talk to customers and learn if your business is a good idea when everyone – even your mom – is lying to you.  You have to go out looking for people that are experiencing the problem you’re hoping to solve and bring them to you. This can be through a landing page for your business or a survey that asks people for a 20-minute conversation, with no sales strings attached. Or it can be a call on social media for your audience to give feedback as you develop your product. In fact, some people have even started building live on Twitter, as their followers offer opinions in real-time.  Not only are these responses genuinely helpful with your development, but by soliciting and creating a space for people to tell you what they think, you’ve created some authentic engagement and potential interest. Even someone who tells you why your product is stupid will be more inclined to use it if they think you’ve seen and perhaps considered their suggestions.  Besides social media, online forums, discussion boards and message groups are good places to ideate and iterate with like minds. Throughout development, you can throw out screenshots of your build or new design ideas, things you’re testing, asking people to check them out and offer their views. From that, you can pick up users, customers, even investors. The best thing about these communities is that the people involved don't just feel like users of a product. They feel almost like vicarious founders, and so they are emotionally invested in your success because they are helping you build that business. In the world of startups, the goal of most companies should be to build a loyal audience at the beginning and then expand. The success of your mobile app comes down to fostering a sense of community among users.  To recap: First, start by building the beginnings of your audience, your community, your customer base, before you build the first screen. Talk to people before you build. Get feedback and be open to thinking differently.  Second, build the smallest thing you can build that actually helps someone, even if it’s ugly, even if it kind of doesn’t fully work. Just something that helps users incrementally solve the problem, and go from there.  And third, do this over and over again, in cycles as you develop, either publicly on social media or with a group of friends or somewhere online. Talk to people; ask for regular, ongoing feedback. This generates not only more constructive feedback but also deeper levels of assistance and loyalty. Those are three powerful things that not all startup founders are thinking about, but they really should be. Before growth hacking, before digital marketing, before pitching Wired or TechCrunch and long before you ever push that submit button on Apple. Cultivate a community, iterate with an audience, convert it into a customer base. Not too long ago, building apps required a team of developers for each customer experience. But now, with Draftbit, you can design and build once, then deploy to multiple endpoints. So, go ahead, bring your screens to life. If you’re ready to create, customize, and launch a mobile app from your browser, with the source code included, request a demo of Draftbit or sign up to start building for free. Your first 1,000 users are waiting.  Get started in minutes!

In the world of startups, traction is everything. In this article I walk you through how to get the first 1000 users for your new startup. Wouldn't it be wonderful if you could just build a great product, put it out there in the world and then watch as willing users flock gratefully to sign up for your new masterpiece?  It sure as hell would make my life a lot easier. Being a serial startup founder I find myself praying to the user acquisition gods more often than I would like to admit, because getting your first users is bloody hard work. However, over time I have learned that there is some sort of playbook of activities (not a formula, such things are nearly always snake-oil) that will do the job of getting the first users onto your product, regardless of what it is. In this post I will aim to shed some light on some of these activities while explaining why they work and roughly how long they will take to deliver. These are not tricks or hacks, they are widely used strategies that work for very simple reasons, and are time-tested. I should caveat this by saying that my focus is primarily on tech startups, particularly SaaS businesses with a subscription model, so adjust your expectations accordingly if you are not in that particular sphere. Nonetheless, much of this stuff is pretty generalized marketing strategy so you should be able to get some joy regardless of your sector. YMMV, as they say. With that said, let's start with the fundamentals.  If you've spent any time at all in tech as either a consumer or industry professional, you will have come across at least one pre-launch landing page. These are the one-page websites dedicated to products that are yet to be launched. They tend to feature a large hero image of some kind, a bit of blurb and some sort of lead capture, normally a big email address field with an inviting "Sign up for early access" button. You know the ones.  What this tells you is that user acquisition can start as soon as you've had the idea for your product. In fact, it probably should. If not, you could spend weeks building a product only to discover that nobody wants it, which would be a huge waste of time. Validate your idea first, build second. I always use Buffer as an example of early validation executed well. You can read about it on their blog here, but essentially they threw up a landing page for the product with some pricing and then tracked which pricing plan people clicked on. Ta-da: validation that not only did people want the product, but that they would pay for it. They started building it after this. This was over 10 years ago now but the principle remains. Throwing up a landing page is easier than ever before now (more on that shortly), so there's no real excuse for not testing your idea first. The other upside of getting users early, before you build the product, is that it will help you if you are trying to raise money. Many people assume that fundraising only happens with fully built products - or at least an MVP - but that's not always true: many early-stage companies have raised money with nothing more than an idea and some evidence that the idea has demand. At Firedrop we raised our first round of funding with a simple prototype that took us two days to mock up, and some social proof that we were solving a genuine pain point. Our second round of funding - still pre-launch - happened because we had used some of the techniques below to acquire 8,000 early beta testers who were all itching to get their hands on the product. Acquiring users should start as soon as possible. The next consideration is how long it will take to get to your first 1000 users. This is a function of effort, specific market, how much money/time you are willing to spend on acquisition, and even a little bit of luck. In short, there is no catch-all answer to how long it will take to get to the 1000 user milestone, but you would be sensible to set aside at least 6-12 months if you're not really going to go hell-for-leather on this. Money is obviously also a factor. If you have budget for advertising then your timeline will shorten significantly assuming you have a half-competent advertising strategy. There are marketing agencies who specialize in helping with this, including one I founded for precisely this reason (shameless plug). Generally speaking though, I will assume you are building a startup with very little budget as you're just trying to get something off the ground, and will focus this article on non-paid tactics (although you may have to pay small mounts for things like website hosting). Before you start shouting about your startup from every rooftop, make sure you've got your house in order. There's nothing worse than generating a buzz that dies out because people don't know what you're shouting about or how to get involved. As an aside, here are some things not to do at this stage, which I only mention because I've seen so many people get over-excited once they've got their website online: This might sound boring, but before you can start marketing your startup you need to do some groundwork to ensure you're doing the right things. As minimums, I would strongly urge you to: This may all sound very obvious, but I can't stress enough how important it is to actually go through the process of understanding your playing field, as very often our own bias obscures insights that we would miss without going through the thought process in a systematic way. Set aside some time for a brainstorm and write down your user avatar and pain points. You can even stick them on the wall if you're into that kind of thing. Now we're getting into the actionable checklists. Going from 0 to 100 users is a great first step; you'll feel validated and the thrill of seeing things starting to happen will motivate you. Here's what you should do. That should be enough to get you over the 100 users mark. If it doesn't, use this as a signal that your product or idea may not be of interest, and you should re-evaluate. Or, keep reading to try some of the other tactics below. Having got your first few users and gained some early validation of the product idea, it's time to throw yourself into the lions' den and start targeting the tech enthusiasts. This means engaging with them where they live. Here are some ideas: A bit of groundwork engaging with your target audience in their own communities can pay huge dividends. When Firedrop got posted on Hacker News we acquired 2000 new users in 24 hours! This is where the proper marketing effort comes in, but it is probably the single most effective technique for getting early traction that I have seen being consistently effective. Content marketing is a chore, but it really works. Content marketing is one of the most widely used and effective ways of growing your user base, but it's important to be realistic about the time it will take. You will need to be posting regularly - at least once or twice per week - for a period of 6 months or more before you can reasonably expect it to take off. If your focus is more on social media posting, up the intervals to once per day at least, on top of your efforts to engage with other users. Finally - and this is really important - make sure to focus on quality over quantity. Resist the temptation to outsource your article-writing to volume-focused Fiverr freelancers. In 2022 people are wise to blogspam and it will hurt your brand if you are seen to be peddling poor quality content for the sake of it. Outsourcing your social media posting is acceptable if you work with an agency that truly understands your product and market. Otherwise, do it yourself but do it regularly and consistently. If you have a tech startup there's a reasonable chance you have programming skills within your founder group. Use it.  There are plenty of examples of startups who have successfully leveraged their engineering skills to build traction by building mini-products and in-app features whose sole purpose is to provide value to their audience while capturing their details and/or encouraging signups. Below are a couple of examples to inspire you. The reason these approaches work is that they target their customers' main pain points and amplify it so that potential users are inclined to sign up to their platform to solve the problems. SEMRush's audits will nearly always throw up warnings and errors, and WPEngine's speed testing tool will tell you your site could be faster. In other words, telling people that the way they're doing things is bad is far more effective than just selling features to them. As human beings we respond much more strongly to negative stimuli than positive ones. Get creative. Focus on the pain points and how you can hook potential customers in by allowing them to evaluate a problem they might have, and push your product as the solution. The best thing about engineering-as-marketing strategies is that they can be evergreen, bringing you new customers for years after your initial traction efforts. I have deliberately chosen a narrow route to just your first 1000 users in an effort to present an easily-achievable strategy that won't cost money and can be executed by most people well. However, whatever you do it's important to measure and track results. One big mistake startup founders make is sticking to a failing strategy and then throwing their arms up in frustration that it's not working.  In truth there are many variables that can impact the effectiveness of any given strategy, so you need to measure everything you do and adapt accordingly. Here are some simple ways of doing that. The tactics discussed in this article are a small handful of free or almost free activities you can engage in to build up your first base of users. If applied correctly and consistently, I can say with reasonable certainty that they will get you to the first 1000 users and quite likely beyond if executed well enough. There are other tactics that require different skills and, usually, some spend. If your budget is tight or you're not especially experienced in marketing, it's usually best to look at these later on, or experiment with them carefully. However, there are times where other tactics may be the best option for you and so here are some of the best ones, briefly: I could go on, as there are seemingly endless ways to build traction especially once you want to go past the 1000 mark. One thing to know is that you will need to change strategy fairly frequently as each stage of growth takes shape. What worked in getting your first 1000 users may not work in getting the next 99,000. Keep experimenting, measuring and adapting. And keep the consistency. If you want to dig deeper, I would recommend Traction by Gabriel Weinberg (founder of privacy-first search engine DuckDuckGo) and Justin Mares, which covers the 19 most commonly used channels in a very digestible format. For now, feel free to hit me up for a no-strings chat if you want more specific input into your own startup early-stage traction strategy. I'm always happy to talk to startup founders.

 "Join over 25 million other readers that have been educated and inspired to transform their life and business"   Starting a business is the beginning, the real challenge is getting customers – generating sales. Your startup could have one of the best products in the market and you could have a few thousand followers on Twitter or Facebook, but if you aren’t getting new customers, you’ll find yourself nowhere. Instead of growing your startup overnight by reaching 100K customers, you need to stick to small achievable targets. Once you get a good chunk of your first 1000 customers, you’ll have a better understanding of what works and what doesn’t. You can then scale your marketing campaigns easily. So how you can get first 1000 customers for your startup? There are 3 proven techniques to do so. LeadPages was started in January 2013 and in less than a year, they had 16K customers. How did LeadPages manage to grow itself from 0 to 15K subscribers in less than a year? Two words – content marketing. Their blog has a long list of posts that offer value to the readers and each blog post has at least one opt-in that is designed specifically for that same post. These guys don’t just publish high-quality content but they’re using content to build their email list. Things then become easier. Content marketing costs 62% less than other types of marketing and, at the same time, it generates 3x more leads.  Content marketing is all about creating valuable content for your target audience so they visit your website, subscribe, and become happy customers.  Let’s say you’re a founder of a SaaS company. You’ve got two choices: Content marketing outperforms traditional marketing because you’re not selling anything at the frontend. Once you start doing it, your startup will enjoy the following benefits: How do you make the most of content marketing? It is a 3-step process. Start creating awesome content that delivers nothing but value to your readers. In other words, create 10x content. Content that is 10x better than the best content out there. If you’re writing 10 weight loss tips, you’re not doing something new. There are hundreds of posts and videos already out there that share 10 weight loss tips. This type of content doesn’t work. What type of content works then? Here is a perfect example. A beginner’s guide to website speed optimization by Kinsta is one of the best guides on website speed optimization. It has well over 10K words, it’s easy-to-read, visually pleasing, and is better than everything else that’s out there on speed optimization.  If you can generate this type of content for your startup, getting 1000 customers won’t be an issue. Publish these types of posts regularly on your blog. If you’re writing massively useful posts, 1 to 2 posts a month are fine. Don’t forget to add CTAs and opt-in forms throughout your posts. Publishing content on your blog won’t do much. You’ve got to promote it. Ensure that your awesome content gets in front of as many eyeballs as possible. There are several ways to promote your content such as social media marketing, outreach, content syndication, and others. But there is one technique that is mostly underutilized but delivers big time. Content repurposing. You can convert your blog post into other forms of content to reach a new audience. You can convert it into a PDF guide and submit it to PDF sharing sites, it can be converted to a video, you can create a slide deck and submit it on SlideShare, create an infographic, create a podcast, and so on. High-quality content sitting on your blog is useless and won’t help you generate sales. You’ve got to tell the world about your content – that will help you get new customers. Did you know Buffer’s co-founder, Leo Widrich, published 150 guest posts when Buffer was launched and in as little as 9 months, he managed to grow Buffer from 0 to 100K customers? Nine months – 150 guest posts, and BAM! Let’s see how Widrich did it for his startup so you can replicate the same and get at least 1000 customers. If you’re new to guest blogging, start with sites like MyBlogGuest, Blogger Linkup, and others. Targeting large authority sites out of nowhere isn’t going to help much. The blogs you’ll normally find on these sites won’t have awesome metrics but since you’re new to it, don’t hesitate to contribute to smaller blogs. After you’ve successfully guest blogged on a few good blogs in your niche, move ahead and start pitching to high authority websites in your niche. Here is a template that Leo used to reach out to high authority sites.  The real challenge isn’t how to pitch but how to find relevant blogs. There are a few good ways to find guest post targets. Visit SpyFu, enter your competitor’s URL and hit Enter.  Find Backlinks and click Backlinks.  Filter backlink type by checking Blogs and you’re done.  If your competitor has published a guest post on a specific blog, you can publish your post there too. Create awesome content for every single guest post you write. Ordinary content won’t take you too far. In fact, if you’re really interested in reaching 1000 customers in record time, you’ve got to create content that will WOW readers. The Skyscraper technique works best in this case because it lets you create content that is sure to stand out from the crowd. It is a three-step process but in this case, you’ll only focus on the first two steps that are: Once you have this type of content, you are able to drive tons of targeted traffic via every single guest post. Getting 1000 customers will become a piece of cake. Influencer marketing is one of the best and easiest ways to reach 1000 customers. I’ll tell you why in a moment but first let me tell you that influencer marketing isn’t cheap. A single post on Instagram might cost you as much as $1K. But the good news is that it pays off. Statistics show that businesses generate $6.50 for every $1 spent on influencer marketing. It is not a bad ROI, right? So what exactly is influencer marketing and how it can help your startup get its first 1000 customers? Wikipedia defines influencer marketing as a marketing type where a business targets influential people instead of its target market. Instead of you promoting your startup, an influencer promotes your startup for you. Influencers include celebrities, journalists, public figures, or anyone who has a considerable influence on your target audience. Rescue promoted its products with the help of influencer marketing. They hired influential bloggers like A Girl Named PJ and A Clothes Horse who created sponsored posts featuring Rescue products.  This resulted in massive exposure and over 6K clicks to their coupon site. Influencer marketing can prove to be a game-changer for your startup provided you do it the right way. Here is how to plan your influencer marketing campaign for your startup to get new customers. Set SMART goals for your influencer marketing campaign.  Your objectives and goals should be specific, measurable, attainable, relevant, and time-based. You should know exactly what you intend to achieve from your campaign. In this case, you are interested in getting 1000 customers for your startup so this would be your goal. Make it time-based. Something like getting 1K customers in 6 months. Finding the right influencers is the key. An influencer is someone who has a significant audience that makes decisions based on his/her opinion. The right influencer is someone who has the same audience as your target audience. If you’re selling a music app for iPhone, Katy Perry with her 103 million Twitter followers who are music-lovers seem to be a perfect influencer.  If you’re selling an anti-aging herbal cream, Katy Perry, despite her hundred million followers, is not the right influencer because her followers will be least interested in anti-aging herbal creams. You’ve got to find influencers who have almost the same audience as your target audience, this is what makes a perfect match. Macro influencers are expensive while micro influencers are easier to afford. Instead of spending $50K on a single macro influencer like a celebrity, a decent approach is to hire multiple micro influencers who are relatively less famous but have a huge impact. Klear and Followerwonk are two tools you can use to find the right influencers in any niche. Yes, you’ve got to pay influencers. They don’t promote you for free. Nobody does it free. Measure the ROI of each influencer and see how the campaign works. Some influencers will do better than others in terms of user engagement, sales, and quality of leads. Your job is to analyze every influencer and choose the best ones. The influencers who outperform and send the most customers your way, rehire them and scale up. Getting new customers for your startup is indeed challenging. If you know what you’ve got to do and how you’ve got to do it, things become somewhat less complicated. You don’t have to necessarily use all of these techniques, instead, choose one marketing technique at a time – the one that you think will work for your startup and will easily integrate with your marketing and business strategy. Once you get your first 1000 customers, all you have to do is scale up and repeat. Guest Author: Sabih Javed is an experienced freelance writer for hire with specialization in digital marketing. He has written data-driven and actionable content for numerous B2B and B2C companies. His publications appeared in Yahoo News, TheNextWeb, Business2Community, and more. Find more about him on his blog DigitalMarketer.PK, and catch him on Twitter @sabihjavedd.  He is the owner of jeffbullas.com. Forbes calls him a top influencer of Chief Marketing Officers and the world's top social marketing talent. Entrepreneur lists him among 50 online marketing influencers to watch. Inc.com has him on the list of 20 digital marketing experts to follow on Twitter. Oanalytica named him #1 Global Content Marketing Influencer. BizHUMM ranks him as the world's #1 business blogger. Learn More   DISCLAIMEROpinions expressed within the Jeffbullas.com website are opinions of the Brand or contributor. We do not endorse, or take liability for paid content within the website. Jeffbullas does not endorse or review brands mentioned; does not and cannot investigate relationships with brands, products, and people mentioned and is up to the brand or contributor to disclose. Contributors, amongst other accounts and articles may be professional fee-based. 

Oct 5 How to kickstart and scale a consumer business—Step 4: Find your early adopters by doing things that don’t scale.  Also, how today’s biggest consumer products got their first 1,000 users. Courtesy of Lenny Rachitsky How to kickstart and scale a consumer business—Step 4: Find your early adopters by doing things that don’t scale.  Also, how today’s biggest consumer products got their first 1,000 users. Courtesy of Lenny Rachitsky Flashcards

Share:         Click on any company logo below to read the story of how the company got their first users from scratch. GitHub Intercom Apple Zoom Facebook Twitter AirBNB Dropbox Slack Tinder Stripe Groupon Microsoft Firefox Gumroad Twitch Mixpanel DoorDash Instagram Trello WordPress AliBaba ProductHunt Skype Hotmail Pinterest Whatsapp Reddit Amazon Paypal Salesforce Zapier Strategy: Word-of-mouth and Open Profiles When GitHub launched in April 2008, the platform had already started a beta program for early users. They gained around 6,000 users by the time they officially launched. The early strategy revolved around inviting their developer friends to use the open platform. New users could easily share their code on GitHub with a single link. This increased the traffic to the GitHub website, as others wanted to check out the code. When people visited the code pages, they could sign up for the beta program on GitHub. This then allowed them to also publish code and share it with their friends. The strategy paid off as GitHub was able to get around 6,000 new users in the few months their beta program was live.  Strategy: Cold email marketing Intercom’s founder Des realized the importance of being able to communicate with your users early on. During the development of Intercom, several of the people around him tweeted about what Des and his team were working on, and about how they excited they were for the new product. The very early users for Intercom came from Des reaching out to potential users by email. He would send 100 cold emails to potential users, look at how well those emails worked and what kind of replies he’d get, and turn that knowledge into better emails the next day. He sent every single one of those 100 daily emails by hand to understand their potential customers. After the initial success through this outreach campaign, Des hosted webinars explaining Intercom with the main goal of getting every attendee to sign up for Intercom. He would stay up until 6am San Francisco time to host webinars for people in Australia, New Zealand and Asia to reach his potential users at the right time. Strategy: Presenting their first product at local events As Apple just started out, Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak had to look for early customers and ended up presenting their printed circuit board (which would later be named the Apple I) at the Homebrew Computer Club. They bumped into Paul Teller, who owned the chain Byte Shop, and was interested in buying 50 machines running on the circuit board for $500 each (a total of $110,000 in today’s currency for all 50 machines). As both Steves had little money to buy these parts themselves, Jobs contacted a large electronic manufacturer and asked for a NET30 (pay 30 days after delivery) payment contract to get the required resources. They assembled the 50 circuit boards within 30 days, received payment from Paul Teller and managed to pay their agreement with the manufacturer. Strategy: Offline advertising through billboards When Zoom launched in 2013, they needed to figure out a way to enter a saturated market with a product that “worked much simpler than other available products”. And they needed to reach their target audience in the right way at the right time and at the right location. Eric, Zoom’s founder, decided he would start advertising by renting a billboard on Route 101 in the center of San Francisco. The billboard contained the Zoom domain name and a single sentence “Video Conferencing That Doesn’t Suck”. People ended up going to Zoom.us because of the billboard and signed up as early adaptors to use the product. These early adaptors were satisfied with how Zoom worked and ended up telling people around them about Zoom. Strategy: Personally inviting early users & Word-of-mouth The Facebook story is pretty well-known, and there’s a scene in The Social Network where they explain what happened. When Facebook launched, it was just limited to Harvard. Mark Zuckerberg and Eduardo Saverin started with inviting their own friends, along with inviting the members of The Phoenix, a famous fraternity at Harvard that Eduardo recently joined. Friends soon started telling other friends about “The Facebook” and it spread around the Harvard campus. It was also featured in the Harvard Crimson, the local newspaper for Harvard students. In early February 2004, Facebook launched for Harvard students. Within a month, almost half of the attending students signed up for Facebook. In March, the website started their expansion planning, starting with Stanford, Columbia and Yale. Strategy: Word-of-mouth When Twitter launched, the team was working on a podcasting company. Twitter was sort of a side project by Jack Dorsey. The now-famous social media platform started out as a simple status update; you could text what you were up to and it would change your status – since texts were limited to 140 characters, this is where the previous 140 character limit originates – and it would share your status with your friends. The initial team of the podcasting company started using it internally and quickly other people joined through them. When visiting parties in Silicon Valley, the team would talk about Twitter and they got new sign-ups for the platform. Soon word-of-mouth resulted in dozens of sign-ups a day, as it was a great way to keep track of what your friends were doing. Strategy: PR The AirBNB story starts even before officially launching AirbedandBreakfast (the early version of AirBNB). Being short on rent, founders Brian, Nathan and Joe decided to rent out three airbeds in their apartment. There was a designer conference coming up in San Francisco and all the hotels were fully booked. They figured out there was a demand for a place to stay and they could supply it. They quickly turned to a PR campaign that started by emailing local designer blogs about the three available spots. Some websites covered their story, which quickly turned into other blogs picking up their story. They ended up renting out the three airbeds rather quickly. After their initial success, they realized there might be more demand around the country, so they started looking for other conferences and locals that wanted to rent out their apartment. Funny enough, early listings required people to actually put an airbed in their apartment, instead of providing a regular bed. This was quickly set aside and turned the idea into the unicorn that we know today. Strategy: Video marketing Though many people know how Dropbox got their first tens of thousands of users, a lesser known – but similar – story happened when they were just starting out. Dropbox started with just a beta waiting list. People could sign up through a simple landing page. To drive traffic to the landing page, Dropbox’ founders created a simple video about how Dropbox worked and posted it to HackerNews. Because HackerNews’ audience is very tech-savvy, it quickly drove a lot of traffic to the website. Within a short period of time, Dropbox got the irst 5,000 users on the waiting list. Later on, they repeated this strategy with another video, which helped to get tens of thousands of new users on their waiting list in just a week. Strategy: Word-of-mouth & PR While working on a multiplayer video game, the team built its own internal messaging system. As the video game wasn’t working out too well, the team decided to pivot their entire company and focus on building Slack. After closing down their company in 2012, the team built a prototype and launched by April 2013. During the first three months, they begged their friends at 10 different companies to start using Slack as a tool for team communications. Though some companies just started using Slack for smaller teams, it quickly grew out to be used company-wide. They used their initial users to test the product and to find bottlenecks within the software. Because Stewart Butterfield previously co-founded Flickr, he was already rather well-known in the tech scene. Once Slack was ready to launch, sites like TechCrunch, VentureBeat and other tech blogs. This led to quite some traction and resulted in 8,000 invitation requests on the first day. The next two weeks added another few thousand invitation requests, boosting the total requests to a whopping 15,000. Strategy: Personally inviting new users & Word-of-mouth Tinder entered the market to try and engage college students in online dating. So they started thinking about what a dating marketplace needs: supply and demand. And usually, the best way for a lot of people to sign up is to make sure you have enough women on the platform. One of the co-founders of Tinder decided to attend the meetings of different chapters of their sorority and get the women to install Tinder during the meetings. Having this early supply, it was rather easy to go to the fraternities around the area and show them that several women had already signed up. A lot of people attending university are in a fraternity or sorority, but there’s something else a lot of college students do: partying. And, according to the founders, the best way to find these college students was by throwing college parties. The parties had no entry fee, all you had to do was show the Tinder app on your smartphone and you were free to enter the party. This launch strategy is similar to that of Facebook’s. Once they got initial users to sign up for Tinder through a single college party, they realized they could extend this method by going to other campuses and throw parties there as well. This quickly spread the word of Tinder and attracted early users. Strategy: Word-of-mouth & PR While on a hacking trip in Argentina, brothers Patrick and John created the first version of what would soon be Stripe. Users could sign up but a lot of technical work behind the scenes was done manually. Two of their friends signed up as early users. Once a new user signed up, they would create a new account at a financial firm where one of their friends worked. The first version of Stripe didn’t have a way to transfer the incoming payments to their users’ bank accounts. Slowly but surely they learned about new problems and find the right solutions. The brothers continued on this path for the next few months. Launching an online payment processor is hard, especially when you’re new to the market. Where most founders will ask potential users to try their product and send their link, Patrick and John realized there was a better way: whenever someone showed interest in Stripe, they would sign them up right there. Stripe enrolled in Y Combinator and soon several of the other companies in Y Combinator started using Stripe as their payment processor. At this point, most of the work needed to run Stripe was still done manually but Patrick and John did a great job at making it look like everything was automated. Because they manually arranged several key factors behind the scenes, they learned how to, later on, automate these factors to create a better product. While working on Stripe during Y Combinator, the Y Combinator blog also published a post about Stripe, which helped spread the word of this new payment solution. Strategy: Flyers The founder of Groupon, Andrew Mason, eventually pivoted from a different product he was working on, a political petition platform, as his main investor believed he needed to make money. Andrew thought of an idea: offering a one-time 50% off at the pizza joint located in the same building. He printed a few flyers and left them around the office building he was working at. Users could sign up through the link on the flyer, and soon the first group of Groupon users signed up to get a nice discount at the pizza joint. Based on the initial success, Andrew believed more similar deals would be interesting for others, and the website expanded into new markets within Chicago. Within a few months, it expanded to new cities. Strategy: Leap of faith and cold calling When Bill Gates attended Harvard, Paul Allen (the Microsoft co-founder) saw an announcement for the first personal computer, the “Micro Instrumentation and Telemetry Systems (MITS) Altair”. They quickly realized that a device like this needs great software to perform tasks. They called MITS to talk about a demonstration of their software – which in reality they hadn’t started creating yet as they didn’t own an Altair. Within 8 weeks, they developed a basic version of the software called Altair BASIC. As both Paul and Bill was visionaries in the world of computers, they believed a system like this should exist. With the upcoming personal computers, Paul and Bill decided to focus on solely creating software. Strategy: Sharing in existing community When Firefox launched, they were launching it as a first milestone for the Mozilla project. They put the download link for their browser on an FTP site. Back in the day, FTP sites were like directories for downloadable files. During the first week of their launch, mozillaZine covered the launch of the new web browser, then still named “Phoenix”. Later that year, lots of other blogs were covering this new web browser, such as ComputerWorld.  Strategy: Cold email and virality Gumroad has virality built into its platform. Every user that launches a new product on Gumroad automatically promotes the platform. But even when virality is a huge part of your product, you need to get your early users. The team behind Gumroad started with a simple but effective method: reaching out to as many potential early users by email. Cold emails, as long as they’re valuable, are still an effective way of attracting new users. By sending thousands of emails and personally reaching out to people, they steadily grew from an unknown company to a go-to marketplace for sellers and buyers of digital and physical goods.  Strategy: Using their own product + word-of-mouth Twitch is now the famous streaming platform, but when it just started out it was called Justin.Tv, named after its founder Justin Kan. Justin used the platform to stream his own life and called it “lifecasting”. People would tune into Justin streaming on his own channel and would ask how they could sign up to start their own channels. Justin.Tv quickly pivoted from just hosting his own channel to allowing users to create channels. This ultimately led to viral growth, as more people would join after being checking out their friends’ channels and start their own channel. Though “lifecasting” wasn’t very popular, Justin.tv got seed funded by Y Combinator and ended up pivoting into the world of game streaming. This led to exponential growth, as live streaming within the gaming world was only just getting popular. Strategy: Manual user onboarding Mixpanel was officially launched on January 1st 2009 in a blog post by Suhail Doshi. The company got its early users by using Suhail’s network. A little before developing Mixpanel, he was working on creating social apps through Google’s Open Social and met a lot of like-minded developers. These developers were running their own websites or applications and were interested in getting more insights into their analytics. Suhail realized that most of these companies didn’t have the bandwidth or the resources to create their own analytics tools that were more comprehensive than you would get from tools such as Google Analytics. The first customer paid $150/month and Suhail acted as a consultant: the user would install a piece of code and Suhail would send him the reports manually.  Strategy: Local SEO DoorDash quickly grew out to be a big player in the meal delivery space, but started as a small delivery company. The founders were aware that ordering food online was still hard back then as most restaurants didn’t have a dedicated delivery team. They designed a simple landing page with PDFs containing menus from local restaurants and added their own phone number to the PDFs. Since their domain name was pretty generic for their area (Palo Alto), they started showing up in Google results rather quickly and got their first customer. Because they were just a small team back then, they decided to do the deliveries themselves. This also allowed them to talk to their early users to see what they could improve within their system. Strategy: Word of mouth Instagram didn’t start out as Instagram but rather as Burbn, a location-based app to check in at bars. A bit like FourSquare, but a lot more picture focused. Kevin and Mike, the founders of Instagram, quickly realized most people didn’t really care about the check-ins but were mostly interested in the pictures people uploaded. This would be the core principle of the app and they rebranded it as Instagram. For Burbn, the early user growth came from Kevin attending a tech party in Silicon Valley. He told multiple people, including two investors, about his new app and they ended up installing it. Silicon Valley has a lot of early adopters and these first users quickly told their friends. Before Burbn pivoted to a photo sharing app, they already had 25,000 users. They invited all their Burbn users once they launched and the app gained more traction that day thanks to an interview with Kevin on TechCrunch; in the end around 25,000 users signed up for Instagram on its launch day.  Strategy: Presenting at a tech conference Trello officially launched in 2011 at TechCrunch Disrupt and quickly gained traction at the event. The first users signed up for the platform and word-of-mouth helped Trello to get its first 500,000 users within a year. The main reason Trello was so quickly adopted is its easy to use product, but most importantly its freemium model. From the start, users could sign up for free and would be able to use Trello for free forever. Because TechCrunch Disrupt attendees are mostly early adopters looking for new products, it was a great way to get early feedback from their first users, who would later on share it with their friends because they loved the product.  Strategy: Tapping into an existing userbase Back in 2003, there weren’t many great options when you were trying to build a blog. b2/cafelog was a tool that could be used to create blogs but the developers decided to discontinue its development. Matt Mullenweg and Mike Little, WordPress’ founders and users of the b2/cafelog software, decided to develop their own version based on the discontinued software and added additional features. They reached out to the existing community about their new tool and it was received well by users who would no longer be able to use b2/cafelog. Because their users would share their own blogs, the word about WordPress quickly spread to others, who would sign up and create their own blog. Strategy: Cold calling & demoing on location Realizing that the internet would change the world of commerce, the founder of Alibaba, Jack Ma, decided he needed to fill the gap between offline and online. He gathered some of his college friends and quickly turned them into a high-functioning team that would build the Alibaba marketplace. The early users of Alibaba were all signed up manually by visiting manufacturers after reaching out to them by phone. The team would teach them how to add products to Alibaba and how the platform worked. This lead to early stage customer feedback, as they’d run into problems when demonstrating the system, but also from early customers who’d find bugs or had a hard time understanding how the platform worked.  Strategy: Word of mouth & Newsletters Ryan Hoover, ProductHunt’s founder, started out by creating a newsletter that featured the newest tech products he had discovered. After creating the newsletter, he reached out to his own network to see if people were interested in receiving a list of new products to discover. He quickly turned it into an engaging newsletter where others could also share their links to new tech products to be included in the list. After seeing this initial success, Ryan realized there was a way to turn this into an online community that went beyond a list of products by email. After learning how to code with Ruby on Rails, Ryan turned his newsletter subscribers into a community that listed the best new tech products, books, courses and more.  Strategy: Word of mouth & PR Skype started out with a beta launch. After building the peer-to-peer file sharing program Kazaa for a few years and selling it in 2002, the founders realized VOIP and peer-to-peer would be a great combination. The two founders, Niklas and Janus, gathered some of the developers of Kazaa and started working on Skype. Its beta version was launched on the 29th of August in 2003 and the team sent links to their website to friends and bloggers. This generated the early sign ups but most importantly resulted in a lot of PR. About a month later, the New York Times published a full page on Skype and how it was going to transform the way we call people.  Strategy: PR & Built-in virality Hotmail officially launched on the 4th of July in 1996, after they received funding on February 14th of the same year. The founders of Hotmail hired a PR firm to launch a massive PR campaign. They talked to several journalists about their product and this helped spread the word during the first few weeks after launch. Another great boost for their user growth was a small line that said “Get Your Free Email at Hotmail” whenever someone sent an email. In the end, this was like adding kerosine to a small fire, as the company grew to 100,000 users in just 3 months. Strategy: Word of mouth Pinterest got its first users simply by word of mouth. After Ben finished developing the first version of Pinterest, he decided to tell his friends and family about it. Some of his family members soon signed up and spread the word to get more users to the website. Early on, Pinterest was simply an invitation-only platform. You could only sign up if you were personally invited by someone else. To further spread awareness, Ben decided to start looking for local bloggers to write about Pinterest and to participate on the platform. Hosting special events called “Pinterest bloggers”, he would invite local bloggers and talk about Pinterest. Another famous story about the early days of Pinterest is Ben going around local stores to open up Pinterest on the computers and iPads. He’d open up Safari, visit Pinterest.com and would leave the website on the screen. Strategy: Word of mouth When Whatsapp launched, the founding team focused on getting their friends, family and ex-colleagues to start using the message app. One of the founders, Jan Koum, used to work at Yahoo and told his previous colleagues about the app. They then got their initial users to refer more friends to the message app, allowing them to slowly grow its user base during the first couple of weeks after launching. This initial user referral growth also became the future growth strategy for Whatsapp. Users could invite the people on their contact list with a text message to join them on Whatsapp. Strategy: Word of mouth Reddit started when the co-founders were enrolled in Y Combinator. At the time, Digg was one of the biggest websites on the internet, but there was a lot of controversy around the site. The founders of Reddit believed there was room for a better platform. The first users of Reddit came through Y Combinator and were all active in the tech scene. The founders told others around them about the site and Paul Graham shared the site with his network. To make the site look at least a bit active, the founders created new accounts themselves and would post new links on the site. This ‘Fake it till you make it’ strategy ended up paying off, as soon the founders no longer needed to create new accounts nor post their own links, as the site had enough active users to slowly become the new front page of the internet.  Strategy: Word of mouth Amazon may the biggest online US retailer right now but at the start they had to get the first order just like everybody else. After months of developing, the site finally launched with over a million books in its inventory. All the people involved in developing the first version of Amazon sent the link to the website to all of their friends and family. This turned into the first initial sales. One of the early employees invited a former colleague over to try the recently developed platform. His name was John Wainwright. He ended up making the first purchase on the website, which was a science book. The first order was placed on April 3, 1995. Years later, to celebrate the first order by John, Amazon named one of the building on their Seattle campus after John.  Strategy: PR Before PayPal became PayPal, there were two companies who would later merge: Confinity (Peter Thiel, Luke Nosek and Max Levchin) and X.com (Elon Musk). Confinity was a payment system that would mainly run on PALM systems (yes, it’s that old) and had an official launch party where Nokia Ventures sent several million dollars through Paypal on a palm pilot. About a dozen TV cameras and journalists were at the official launch of Paypal and this led to the initial users signing up for the service. About 9 months later, Confinity’s PayPal and X.com merged into Paypal.  Strategy: Inviting users within their network While the Salesforce team was working on the early version of the platform, they’d often invite prospective customers over to their apartment to test the tool and get feedback. They listened to every bit of feedback to understand users’ concerns and preferences. Salesforce also hired a usability to company that ran users through the application to understand user behavior. Salesforce was the first CRM to be built online rather than just available by CD. Press jumped on the story and talked about how Salesforce was changing the world of sales. Early users were able to use Salesforce for free, which led to feedback that shaped the early versions of the product. Strategy: Looking for users on product forums Zapier allows people with no knowledge about working with API’s, to connect API’s from their most used tools in order to automate important tasks and save time. Though Zapier is mostly automated today, most of the work was done manually by Wade Foster, Zapier’s CEO. Many online products had their own support forums on which users would ask for integrations with other tools. As most companies would add these integrations to their roadmap for 6 months from now, Wade was able to hop on a quick call with its early users to configure the integration instantly. He would reply to these forum posts explaining that his team was currently working on an integration and added a link to a landing page. Although the pages would only get around 10-15 visits, around 50% would sign up. These forum replies and landing pages also helped in getting traction from the companies they would integrate into their software, which resulted in the first companies signing up to officially launch a Zapier integration.  By Frank Heijdenrijk on September 19th 2019
Email Frank

Optimizing New Product Positioning & Launch for Product-Market Fit Target the right buyers for your new product. Reach them through the right channels. Convince them with differentiated positioning messages. Create unique positioning for your product Master a process of defining your audience, evaluating your market and building competitive product. Unlock your app's growth and maximize revenues Apply Product-led & Marketing-led Growth principles. No 'hacks' but a structured approach to growth by creating value for users and business Validate Launch your startup by first validating it! Adopt the product-market fit playbook of 250+ founders building future of learning & work. Understanding your Customers - Product Discovery Fundamentals Understand your customers' pain points and iterate on your early-stage idea or prototype to create products people love. ❤️ Achieve Product-User fit with User Centered Design Learn about proven frameworks and tools that companies like Google and Amazon use to build products their users love.

Over the past decade, some of the largest and most important infrastructure companies were built on top of open source technology. Inspired by Lenny Rachitsky’s post on “How the Fastest Growing B2B companies got their First 10 Customers,” this post digs into how the largest OSS companies got their first thousand community members. To detail this journey, we asked four questions to the founders and operators of some of the largest open-source companies in the world including Hashicorp, Confluent, Databricks, and CockroachDB.  How did you get your first 1000 community members? How long did it take you to grow your community to 1000 people?  What was your north star metric for your open source community? What did success look like for that metric? While this table summarizes the different tactics and metrics, tune in below for the incredibly thoughtful perspectives from Mitchell Hashimoto, Founder at Hashicorp, Reynold Xin, Founder at Databricks, Peter Mattis, Founder at Cockroach, and Ale Murray, Director of Community at Confluent.  Cockroach’s main distribution channel in the early days was Hackernews.  “Our initial Github Stars primarily came from Hackernews. We received some very early press attention (even before CRL was funded) that made it onto Hackernews…[and] made writing blog posts about CRDB part of the engineering culture and many of those blog posts made it to the front page of HN.” - Peter Mattis, Co-Founder, CTO at Cockroach   The blue bars show the total posts mentioning “CockroachDB” while the red line shows the total number of posts with multiple comments. You can see Cockroach averaged about one viral HN post per quarter in the early years, which increased to one viral post per month in 2018. In contrast, Hashicorp, Databricks, and Confluent focused on meetups. This may reflect the time when these companies were founded as there was less online or async collaboration. Slack hadn’t really taken off yet as a community tool, and Databricks, for example, started their community as a Google group.  “We reached our first 1000 community members well before a company ever existed, probably sometime in 2010 or 2011 (the company was founded in 2012, the original open source work began the end of 2009). My primary means of reaching these users was local meetup groups and word of mouth.” - Mitchell Hashimoto, Founder at Hashicorp “The first thing we did was open meet-up groups where there were none. I believe that when people find like-minded people that triggers the sense of need for community building. We wanted to make sure people looking for others had a place to find each other.” - Ale Murray, Director of Community at Confluent In addition to meetups, Databricks’ founders worked incredibly closely with early Spark users, answering questions, debugging issues, and helping to deploy Spark to production. I remember Reynold presenting to our team at LinkedIn (big hadoop shop at the time in 2013) on the capabilities of Spark and answering any questions we sent over.  “[We] would volunteer to help startups troubleshoot their issues, and some of us would consult or intern for larger companies to put Spark in production. I remember the original creator Matei was helping a small startup with Spark and it took a whole week of full time work, and then they sent Matei a $50 Amazon gift card.” - Reynold Xin, Founder at Databricks  One common theme was all these companies tracked community numbers religiously. Even if the metric was different, they all had a metric (sometimes more than one) and tracked it closely.  “We used to religiously track meetup numbers, conference attendees, Github stars, mailing list subscribers, number of pull requests, number of contributors. Slack wasn't a thing back then.” - Reynold Xin, Founder at Databricks Many companies tracked multiple metrics to determine community health and also iterated over time. Cockroach and Confluent ultimately landed on slack members as their north star metric, but continued to track github stars with success looking like steady growth over time and jumps at each launch.  “Our first north star metric was Github Stars. When we created our community Slack channel membership count became our north star metric.” - Peter Mattis, Co-Founder, CTO at Cockroach   Hashicorp took a different path and tracked downloads, plugins, and documentation hits. For projects where users may not want telemetry sending data to the cloud, documentation hits could be a great proxy for real usage.  “Documentation I think is a particularly interesting thing to track because it is in my opinion the best measure of actual usage of a project if you do not have telemetry baked in…If a user visits documentation repeatedly, you can be sure that user is likely using or very likely to use the software.” - Mitchell Hashimoto, Founder at Hashicorp Confluent and CockroachDB launched their communities after they were already established companies and open source projects. CockroachDB took 9 months to reach 1k members in their slack, while Confluent took 6 months to grow their online community to 1k members. In contrast, Databricks and Hashicorp started their communities long before they were companies. For example, Mitchell at Hashicorp started the open source work in the end of 2009, but Hashicorp wasn’t founded until 2012. It took Hashicorp 18 months to grow their community to 1k members, but it wasn’t the focus at the beginning: “It took about 18 months, but note I wasn’t making a very strong effort to grow it. I would go to local meetup groups to share my work, but I wasn’t too concerned or interested in growing the community; I had built the tool to solve my own problems and growth and usage wasn’t a big factor for me.” - Mitchell Hashimoto, Founder at Hashicorp Today, Hashicorp, Confluent, Databricks, and Cockroach are all multi-billion dollar companies, but they all started as new open source projects with budding communities. A small part of their incredible journey was how they grew and measured their community in the early days.  Huge thanks to Mitchell Hashimoto, Reynold Xin, Peter Mattis, and Ale Murray for their answers and to Lenny Rachitsky for the inspiration! Thanks for reading Patrick’s Newsletter! Subscribe for free to receive new posts and support my work. I wish you covered this for AI generative companies No posts Ready for more?

   

    
Toggle navigation







Blog  
Try Tactyqal  
About Us  
Contact  









    The path to acquiring the first 1,000 to 10,000 users for an app can vary depending on various factors, such as the app’s niche, target audience, marketing budget, and overall strategy.  However, here are some common approaches and strategies that successful apps have used to attract their initial user base: Before officially launching the app, developers often conduct beta testing or a soft launch.  This involves releasing the app to a small group of users who provide feedback, uncover bugs, and help refine the product.  These early users can then become advocates and spread the word about the app to their networks. Optimizing the app’s listing on the app stores is crucial for visibility.  This includes using relevant keywords in the app’s title and description, selecting eye-catching icons and screenshots, and encouraging positive reviews and ratings.  By ranking higher in search results, the app has a better chance of getting discovered by potential users. Leveraging social media platforms can be an effective way to reach a broader audience.  Creating official accounts for the app on platforms such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, and LinkedIn can help generate awareness.  Engaging with users, sharing updates, and running targeted ad campaigns can help attract early adopters. Collaborating with influential individuals in the app’s target market can help generate buzz and attract users.  Influencers can provide endorsements, reviews, or even create content featuring the app, exposing it to their followers and potentially driving downloads. Creating high-quality content related to the app’s niche can help establish credibility and attract users.  This can include blog posts, articles, videos, tutorials, or podcasts.  By offering valuable insights or solving problems through content, the app gains visibility and builds trust with potential users. Submitting the app to relevant app review sites and directories can help increase exposure and drive downloads.  Many users search for new apps on these platforms, and positive reviews or features can significantly impact app discovery. Encouraging users to refer the app to their friends or offering incentives for sharing can be an effective way to grow the user base.  By providing rewards, discounts, or exclusive features to users who invite others, the app can benefit from word-of-mouth marketing. Building an active and engaged community around the app can foster organic growth.  Creating forums, social media groups, or a dedicated community platform where users can share their experiences, ask questions, and connect with each other helps build loyalty and encourages user retention. Reaching out to journalists, bloggers, or tech influencers to cover the app can generate media exposure and attract users.  A well-crafted press release or a compelling story behind the app’s development can pique the interest of media outlets. If the app meets certain criteria, it may be featured or promoted by the app store itself.  Being featured on the App Store or Google Play can provide a significant boost in visibility and drive a substantial number of downloads. It’s important to note that success in acquiring users may require a combination of these strategies and a tailored approach based on the specific characteristics of the app and its target audience.  Additionally, focusing on providing a great user experience and continually refining the app based on user feedback will contribute to its long-term success and growth. Here are a few examples of successful apps and how they acquired their first 1,000 to 10,000 users: In its early stages, Airbnb used a combination of strategies to attract its initial users.  The founders leveraged their network in the tech community and attended industry events to promote the platform.  They also used a clever growth hack by creating unique, professional-quality photos of the first Airbnb listings themselves to make them more appealing to potential users.  Additionally, they tapped into Craigslist’s classifieds to cross-post Airbnb listings, effectively reaching a wider audience. TikTok gained traction through its predecessor app, Musical.ly.  The app initially targeted young users and focused on user-generated content in the form of lip-syncing videos.  It gained popularity through social media influencers and celebrities who started sharing their TikTok videos, attracting a significant number of young users.  TikTok also utilized a mix of in-app challenges, viral trends, and a personalized recommendation algorithm that kept users engaged and encouraged them to share the app with their peers. Slack began as an internal communication tool for a gaming company called Tiny Speck.  The founders realized the potential of their tool and launched it as a standalone product.  They initially targeted tech-savvy teams and relied heavily on word-of-mouth marketing.  Slack offered a referral program where existing users could invite others, and both the referrer and the invitee received free credits.  This incentivized users to spread the word, contributing to rapid growth and user acquisition. When Instagram launched, it faced stiff competition from established social media platforms.  To gain traction, the app focused on building a strong community of early adopters who were passionate about photography and visual storytelling.  Instagram actively engaged with its early users, responding to feedback, and featuring their photos on the app’s homepage.  They also employed cross-promotion tactics by integrating Instagram with other popular social networks like Facebook and Twitter, making it easier for users to share their Instagram photos with their existing networks. Uber initially targeted tech-savvy individuals in San Francisco and created a demand-driven strategy.  The company employed a combination of tactics, including offering free rides to influential individuals in the startup and tech communities, attending local events, and partnering with popular venues to offer exclusive discounts to their customers.  Uber also used referral programs, where both the referrer and the new user received ride credits, encouraging existing users to invite their friends and family. WhatsApp started by targeting a niche market—international travelers.  The app allowed users to send text messages and share photos without incurring expensive international SMS charges.  The founders reached out to influential travelers and travel bloggers to spread the word about the app.  They also leveraged app store optimization techniques to improve discoverability and focused on delivering a seamless user experience, which led to positive reviews and word-of-mouth referrals. Duolingo, a language learning app, initially attracted users by offering a free, gamified platform to learn languages.  The founders focused on creating engaging and addictive content that made language learning fun.  They strategically partnered with universities to offer courses and certifications, gaining credibility and attracting students.  Duolingo also used social media marketing and encouraged users to invite their friends through referral programs to drive initial user growth. Snapchat gained its initial user base by targeting college students.  The founders focused on building buzz on college campuses by hosting events and partnering with influential student organizations.  They emphasized the app’s ephemeral nature, which resonated with the younger demographic.  Snapchat also utilized clever growth hacks, such as creating “Snapcode” stickers for users to scan and add friends, making it easy for existing users to invite others to join the platform. Robinhood, a popular investment app, initially targeted millennials who were interested in investing but discouraged by high fees and complicated processes.  The founders offered a commission-free trading platform and focused on creating a user-friendly interface.  They employed a referral program where both the referrer and the new user received a free stock, incentivizing users to invite their friends to join.  Robinhood also leveraged social media marketing and educational content to engage with their target audience. Calm, a meditation and sleep app, used content marketing to attract its initial users.  The app offered free guided meditations and sleep stories to showcase the benefits of mindfulness.  Calm partnered with influencers in the wellness and self-care space to promote the app and gain credibility.  They also leveraged app store features and positive reviews to increase visibility and drive downloads. Candy Crush Saga, a popular mobile puzzle game, gained its initial users through a combination of social and viral strategies.  The app allowed users to connect with Facebook, enabling them to see their friends’ progress and send lives and requests.  This social integration encouraged users to invite their friends to play, resulting in a viral loop of user acquisition.  Additionally, Candy Crush Saga leveraged app store features, including being featured as the “App of the Week,” to gain visibility and attract new users. Strava, a fitness tracking app, targeted avid cyclists and runners as its initial user base.  The app offered features like route mapping, activity tracking, and social sharing, appealing to athletes and fitness enthusiasts.  Strava partnered with cycling and running clubs, events, and influencers to promote the app and encourage their communities to join.  By building a strong community around fitness enthusiasts and leveraging partnerships, Strava gained its first 1,000 to 10,000 users. Venmo, a mobile payment app, utilized a grassroots approach to acquire its initial users.  The app initially focused on targeting college students and young professionals.  Venmo provided a seamless and convenient way to split bills and make payments among friends.  The company organized events at universities and partnered with student organizations to spread awareness about the app.  Venmo also leveraged word-of-mouth referrals and encouraged users to invite their friends through a referral program, offering monetary incentives. Shazam, a music identification app, gained its initial user base through partnerships and media exposure.  The app allowed users to identify songs by listening to a short sample. Shazam collaborated with radio stations, music festivals, and popular TV shows to promote the app.  By integrating the app with these platforms and encouraging viewers or listeners to “Shazam” a song to get more information, Shazam attracted music enthusiasts and gained its initial user traction. Headspace, a meditation and mindfulness app, targeted individuals seeking stress relief and mental well-being.  The app used content marketing as its primary user acquisition strategy.  Headspace created a blog that offered valuable content related to meditation, mindfulness, and mental health.  The blog provided free guided meditations and educational articles, attracting users who were interested in exploring meditation.  Headspace also partnered with influential wellness and self-improvement bloggers to expand its reach and acquire users. Creating a viral app is a challenging task, as it relies on a combination of factors such as compelling content, user engagement, and word-of-mouth sharing.  While there is no guaranteed formula for making an app viral, here are some strategies that can increase the chances of achieving viral success: Your app should offer a unique and compelling value that sets it apart from competitors. It could be a novel concept, a disruptive feature, or a solution to a common problem. The more innovative and engaging your app is, the more likely it is to attract attention and generate viral interest. A user-friendly and intuitive interface is crucial for user engagement and viral potential. The app should be easy to navigate, with a clean design and smooth performance across different devices and platforms. Eliminate any friction points or barriers that could hinder user adoption or sharing. Build social sharing features directly into your app, allowing users to easily share their experiences, achievements, or content with their social networks. Enable seamless integration with popular social media platforms and leverage social logins to streamline the sharing process. Encourage users to share their experiences by providing incentives, rewards, or personalized content. Implement a viral loop within your app that encourages users to invite others to join. Offer incentives or rewards for successful referrals, such as exclusive content, discounts, or in-app currency. Make it easy for users to invite their friends through various channels, such as email, SMS, social media, or direct sharing. Engage users by incorporating user-generated content features or challenges within your app. Encourage users to create and share their own content, such as photos, videos, or personalized experiences. Curate and showcase the best user-generated content, fostering a sense of community and encouraging others to participate. Implement game-like elements, such as levels, badges, leaderboards, or rewards, to make your app more engaging and addictive. Create a sense of achievement and competition among users, motivating them to share their progress or compete with friends. Offering exclusive rewards, discounts, or special access to top performers can also drive viral growth. Collaborate with influencers or industry leaders who have a strong following in your app’s target audience. Partner with them to create engaging content, run promotions, or endorse your app. Influencers can help amplify your app’s reach and encourage their followers to try it out, potentially triggering a viral effect. Create high-quality content related to your app’s niche or target audience. Publish blog posts, articles, videos, or tutorials that provide value, entertain, or solve problems for your potential users. Optimize the content for search engines to improve discoverability. Seek PR opportunities to get your app featured in relevant media outlets or industry publications. Optimize your app’s presence on app stores by using relevant keywords in the title and description, selecting captivating icons and screenshots, and encouraging positive reviews and ratings. Higher visibility in search results increases the likelihood of downloads and discovery by new users. Actively listen to user feedback and iterate on your app based on their suggestions and needs. Regularly release updates with new features, improvements, or bug fixes. Engage with your user community through social media, forums, or dedicated support channels. Building a strong relationship with users fosters loyalty, word-of-mouth sharing, and potential virality. Remember, going viral is not guaranteed, but by implementing these strategies, you can increase the potential for your app to gain widespread attention and user adoption. Partha Chakraborty is a venture capitalist turned entrepreneur with 17 years of experience. He has worked across India, China & Singapore. He is the founder of Tactyqal.com, a startup that guides other startup founders to find success. He loves to brainstorm new business ideas, and talk about growth hacking, and venture capital. In his spare time, he mentors young entrepreneurs to build successful startups.     Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.  

 Copyright 2022 Tactyqal. All Rights Reserved.      

Notion has world by storm with over 30 million users and a staggering $10 billion valuation. Notion's story shows how a great product can grow organically without spending a lot on marketing or advertising, building a loyal community and listening to user feedback. Notion is a productivity app that has taken the world by storm with over 30 million users and a staggering $10 billion valuation. It's not just another note-taking app but a powerful tool that allows users to create notes, documents, databases, wikis, and more. But how did it all start? Ivan Zhao, the founder of Notion, had a vision to create an all-in-one tool that could replace multiple apps and empower users to build their own workflows. In 2013, he started building a prototype in HTML and CSS, which he shared with friends and family. It took three years of hard work, but in 2016, Notion launched its first public version, "Notion 1.0". The app was a simple note-taking tool that allowed users to create pages with different blocks of content, such as text, images, tables, lists, and more. It also included a web clipper feature, which allowed users to save web pages to Notion. Notion did not spend any money on marketing or advertising but relied solely on word-of-mouth and organic growth to acquire its first 1000 users. It focused on building a loyal fan base of early adopters who loved the product and shared it with others. To spread the word and get feedback from users, Notion leveraged social media platforms like Twitter, Reddit, and Product Hunt. It built a strong community of enthusiasts who created tutorials, templates, and use cases for Notion. It also engaged with influencers who promoted Notion to their followers. Notion's revenue model is based on freemium and subscription plans. It offers a generous free plan that allows users to create up to 1000 blocks of content and share them with up to five guests. It also offers paid plans that increase the storage limit, the number of collaborators, and the features. Notion's first 1000 users were mostly tech-savvy and creative professionals who valued the app's versatility and simplicity. They were also willing to give feedback and suggestions to improve the product. They became Notion's advocates and evangelists who helped spread the word and attract more users. Notion's first 1000 users paved the way for its exponential growth and success. Today, Notion has over 4 million paying customers, including companies like Slack, Netflix, Spotify, and Shopify. It has also expanded its features and integrations to cater to different use cases and needs. Notion's story shows how a great product can grow organically without spending a lot on marketing or advertising. It also shows how building a loyal community and listening to user feedback can help improve the product and increase retention and referrals. Notion is more than just a productivity app; it's a game-changer in the world of workflow management.

